AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.India kicks off election season, China offers trade concessions and Britain gears up for another crucial Brexit vote. Heres the latest:General elections will kick off on April 11 and unfold in seven phases before polls will close on May 19. Results will be announced on May 23.The worlds largest democratic exercise, with some 900 million eligible voters, is widely seen as a referendum on the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is running for a second five-year term.Analysis: In 2014, Mr. Modis promises of ambitious economic reforms won him the first single-party majority in the country in three decades.His popularity may be dented by a series of mismanaged policies and an emboldened nationalist movement associated with his Bharatiya Janata Party.On Tuesday, British lawmakers are scheduled to vote on Prime Minister Theresa Mays two-part blueprint for the countrys withdrawal from the E.U.Many expect Parliament to reject her plan again, leaving Britain, in all likelihood, pleading with the E.U. for an extension of the March 29 deadline for the divorce.Whats next? Mrs. Mays plan addresses trade during a transitional period immediately after Brexit that will expire in December 2020, with the potential for a two-year extension.Even if lawmakers do vote for her plan, questions about Britains long-term trade relationship with the E.U. would still need to be negotiated, a process that could take several more years.Go deeper: The Brexit referendum vote in 2016 exposed long-festering fissures between the countrys rural and urban populations, as well as its young and old, and ended up driving wedges between families and friends.Over the weekend, Chinese officials raised potential solutions to major roadblocks in trade talks with the U.S., possibly edging the worlds two largest economies closer to a deal.First, China would accept an enforcement mechanism that would allow the U.S. to monitor Beijings economic policies and unilaterally reinstate tariffs in case of violations of an agreement  if China had equal monitoring and enforcement powers.Beijing also suggested that both sides had reached an understanding to avoid deliberately devaluing their currencies for competitive advantage, but allow them to adjust for other reasons. Those are essentially the terms of an agreement China and the U.S. signed on to in 2016.Private-sector control? A Chinese entrepreneur who has accused the government in court and online of stealing his rights to coal-rich land has disappeared.As the terrorist groups territory in Syria and Iraq shrank to little more than a speck, the Islamic State gained a footing in the southern region of the Philippines.In January, the group claimed a bombing at a cathedral that killed 23 people on the island of Jolo. The Philippine military responded with airstrikes and stationed 10,000 soldiers there.ISIS is the most complicated, evolving problem for the Philippines today, and we should not pretend that it doesnt exist because we dont want it to exist, said the chairman of the Philippine Institute for Peace, Violence and Terrorism Research.History: The largely Christian nations Muslim minority is concentrated in the southern islands, where the lawless wilderness has been a haven for insurgencies, like Abu Sayyaf.In 2016, the Islamic State began circulating messages online to encourage those militants to join under its black flag.Ethiopian Airlines: A flight carrying more than 150 passengers crashed shortly after taking off from the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa, killing everyone aboard. Boeing identified the jet as one of its new 737 Max 8 models  the kind involved in a Lion Air flight crash in Indonesia in October that raised questions about whether pilots should have been made more aware of its new automatic controls.Japan: A ship collided with an object believed to be a whale in the Sea of Japan, injuring 80 passengers on board, according to a ferry company.Pakistan: Two climbers missing for weeks, one British and one Italian, were pronounced dead after their silhouettes were spotted on the Nanga Parbat mountain where they were trekking, according to Italys ambassador to Pakistan.North Korea: President Trump, months after declaring on Twitter that there is no nuclear threat from North Korea, was forced to acknowledge that Kim Jong-un had indeed continued to build out his nuclear program, even during their budding friendship and long before their second summit meeting in Vietnam.South Africa: A generation after apartheid, nearly 70 percent of farms held by individuals have white owners, fueling disappointment in the governing African National Congress and spurring some in the black majority to seize land themselves.Paul Manafort: President Trumps former campaign chairman was sentenced to 47 months in prison for perpetuating a decades-long, multimillion-dollar fraud scheme, a relatively lenient punishment that drew sharp criticism from legal experts.Tesla: In need of a boost to its revenues and battered stock prices, the automaker is set to unveil the Model Y, an S.U.V. crossover, this week. The chief executive, Elon Musk, said it would have 10 percent more space than the Model 3 sedan and cost slightly more. The companys revenues and stock price has been battered.Howard Schultz: The Starbucks founders prospective run for president next year seems to be raising concerns among shareholders who worry that his political ambitions could elicit a backlash against the coffee chain.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day:  Chickpea stew with orzo and mustard greens is colorful and complex. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recipe recommendations.)Your frustration at work could be fuel for a breakthrough.Heavy bedding is everywhere now. Does it really help with insomnia?The Times published an obituary of Carmine Persico, a noted New York mobster, on Friday. In some circles, the bigger news was the byline.Say it with me children: Selwyn Raab, the Times writer Dan Barry tweeted.Mr. Raab, 84, retired from The Times in 2000, after decades of reporting on the Mafia. His signature 2005 book, Five Families, runs roughly 800 spellbinding pages.Your Back Story writer gave Sel a call. In addition to projects for the History Channel, hes writing a pilot for a 10-part series based on Five Families and working with Netflix on a series about the 1986 Mafia Commission trial.Sadly, we didnt have a photo of him at hand.I was always very careful about showing my face, he said, his humor as unchanged as his energy. The point is, very simply, that there was always a gentlemens agreement that if you wrote honestly about organized crime figures, they wouldnt victimize you, but there are always crackpots.And I wasnt that good-looking to begin with.Andrea Kannapell, the Briefings editor, who overlapped with Mr. Raab at The Times, wrote todays Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Najim Rahim and Fahim AbedMAZAR-I-SHARIF, Afghanistan  At least 27 members of security forces in northern Afghanistan were killed by the Taliban in a series of coordinated attacks on Tuesday, officials said, and dozens of others were wounded.The deadliest violence took place in Sar-i-Pul Province, where the Taliban attacked Afghan security forces in three areas, killing a total of 21 people, officials said. The officials did not provide a breakdown of casualties.Zabihullah Amani, the spokesman for the governor of Sar-i-Pul, said the Taliban had simultaneously attacked the center of Sayad District, security outposts along the highway linking Sar-i-Pul with Jowzjan, and a village with oil wells.It was a very strong attack, Mr. Amani said. Two security outposts were captured by the Taliban; 25 members of security forces were also wounded during the clashes.The Talibans main goal, he said, was to take control of the oil wells in the village of Qashqari. They did not succeed, he added.Insurgents attacked the center of Sayad from three directions, said Hayatullah Sayadi, the district governor, killing seven local police officers and wounding eight others.Reinforcements, including the police and intelligence chiefs of the province, were called in to help, but they too were ambushed by the Taliban. It was not clear if there were any casualties in the subsequent ambush.Separately, in the northern province of Balkh, the Taliban struck a security outpost in the Chemtal District, killing six police officers and wounding seven others, said Rahmatullah Khan, a local police commander. The Taliban seized all weapons and equipment in the outpost, he said.Last month, President Trump announced that he had ordered half of the 14,000 American troops in Afghanistan home, even as the 17-year war continues to rage and the Taliban threaten much of the country.For many in the Afghan leadership, the news of the withdrawal was a betrayal. The timing is likely to complicate the American push for peace talks with the Taliban, which require maintaining pressure on the battlefield.After a series of meetings recently between American diplomats and the Taliban in Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, talks between the Americans, the Taliban, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates officials and Pakistan are set to take place in Saudi Arabia in the coming weeks.The Taliban refused to sit down with the Afghan delegation at earlier meetings held in Moscow and the United Arabic Emirates, however, and they have said that they will not meet with the Afghan delegation in Saudi Arabia either.While it remains unclear if the recent meetings will result in negotiations that include Afghan officials, they do appear to have contributed to the Talibans growing public outreach efforts in the region: The Taliban spokesman, Zabihullah Mujahid, confirmed on Tuesday that a delegation from the group had visited Tehran on Monday to discuss the situation in Afghanistan and possible paths to peace and security in the region.Najim Rahim reported from Mazar-i-Sharif, and Fahim Abed from Kabul, Afghanistan.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisBy Peter Baker and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON  At first, he vowed to take the mantle for closing part of the federal government. Then he blamed Democrats, saying they now own the shutdown. By Friday, President Trump was back to owning it again. Im very proud of doing what Im doing, he declared.Two weeks into the showdown over a border wall, Mr. Trump is now crafting his own narrative of the confrontation that has come to consume his presidency. Rather than a failure of negotiation, the shutdown has become a test of political virility, one in which he insists he is receiving surreptitious support from unlikely quarters.Not only are national security hawks cheering him on to defend a porous southern border, but so too are former presidents who he says have secretly confessed to him that they should have done what he is doing. Not only do federal employees accept being furloughed or forced to work without wages, they have assured him that they would give up paychecks so that he can stand strong.Never mind how implausible such assertions might seem. The details do not matter to Mr. Trump as much as dominating the debate. After an oddly quiescent holiday season in which he complained via Twitter about being left at home alone  poor me  he has taken the public stage this week clearly intent on framing the conflict on his own terms.[President Trump warned that he was considering declaring a national emergency to build the border wall.]People close to the president described him as emboldened since members of Congress returned to Washington after the break, giving him not only a clear target to swing at but helping him focus on a fight that he is convinced is a political winner. One aide said Mr. Trump believes he has gained the upper hand in the public battle.Although surveys at first showed more Americans blaming him for the shutdown than Democrats, later polling showed the fault more evenly split. And the voters he cares most about, his core conservative supporters, are more enthusiastic than the public at large. He has told people that my people love the fight, and that he believes he is winning.In the past three days, Mr. Trump has appeared in public three times to get his version of the story out while Democrats celebrated their takeover of the House. At a lengthy cabinet meeting on Wednesday, an appearance with border patrol union leaders on Thursday and a news conference with Republican congressional leaders in the Rose Garden on Friday, he engaged in quintessentially Trumpian stream of conscious discussions that ranged widely and unpredictably.At one point, he argued that the Soviet Union was right to invade Afghanistan in 1979 to stop terrorists, a revisionist version that provoked a strong reaction in Kabul and earned a sharp rebuke from the often supportive editorial page of The Wall Street Journal, which said, We cannot recall a more absurd misstatement of history by an American President.At another point, Mr. Trump mocked India for doing no more in Afghanistan than building a library, which generated headlines in New Delhi about the jab at its prime minister, not to mention more head scratching because, according to Indian news media, the country has not built a library in Afghanistan in many years.He repeatedly claimed that the new trade agreement he has negotiated with Mexico and Canada means that Mexico really is paying for the wall, even though the pact has yet to be approved by Congress and has no direct connection to border security. He has made misleading claims about how many terrorists might be coming across the border.Heres how much the proposed border deal would add to existing barriers.Mr. Trumps version of events differed even from the other people in the room at Fridays meeting at the White House. When Democratic congressional leaders emerged after two hours, they described a contentious session with no meaningful progress as the president threatened to keep the government closed for months or even years. When Mr. Trump emerged shortly afterward, he described a very, very productive meeting and predicted the standoff could be fixed very quickly.Two people briefed on the meeting said that White House officials viewed the conversation as the first civil discussion that had taken place between the two sides, and it left some of Mr. Trumps aides hopeful. Indeed, Mr. Trump made a point of publicly saying nothing but relatively positive things about the Democrats on Friday.Optimistic that a deal really is within reach, the president said he would have Vice President Mike Pence; Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary; and Jared Kushner, his son-in-law and senior adviser, meet with Democrats over the weekend.But there were questions about his own side of the aisle. Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, unlike other congressional Republican leaders, was not present for the Rose Garden news conference. Hes running the Senate, Mr. Trump explained, even though the Senate had adjourned hours earlier and Mr. McConnells spokesman said the senator did not know about the news conference.The president nonetheless was feeling energized by support he said he had received for the fight  including the very federal employees who are not being paid as a result of the partial shutdown.A lot of people that you think are upset  and certainly theyre not thrilled  but they say, Sir, do the right thing, we need border security, Mr. Trump said. And these are people that wont be getting paid.As for his predecessors, he said, This should have been done by all of the presidents that preceded me, and they all know it. Some of them have told me that we should have done it.By all public accounts, Mr. Trump had not spoken with his living predecessors since his inauguration until former President George Bush died last month. Mr. Trump called Mr. Bushs son, former President George W. Bush, to offer condolences, but the subject of the wall did not come up, according to Mr. Bushs office. A few days later, at the elder Mr. Bushs funeral, Mr. Trump encountered his predecessors for the first time since taking office, but he sat quietly without talking with them during the service.The younger Mr. Bush built miles of wall and fencing along the Mexico line while he was president, but said it could not cover the entire border and insisted that enforcement should be coupled with an overhaul of immigration law to permit many people in the country illegally to stay. Former President Barack Obama has repeatedly criticized Mr. Trumps proposed wall, and former President Jimmy Carter has said technological improvements would be more effective at protecting the border.The White House did not say afterward which presidents Mr. Trump was referring to, but a senior administration official said he was probably referring to public comments his predecessors have made about the need for border security, not necessarily for a wall specifically.As he careened this week from subject to subject and assertion to assertion, an energized Mr. Trump seemed to be enjoying himself. He went on for more than an hour and a half on Wednesday and another hour on Friday.Should we keep this going or not, folks? he asked reporters at one point before noticing that it was a cold January day in the Rose Garden.Should we keep this going a little bit longer? he asked again. Let me know when you get tired.One thing Mr. Trump was not was tired.Peter Baker reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman from New York.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Jose A. Del RealLOS ANGELES  Gov. Gavin Newsom of California announced Monday that he would withdraw nearly 400 of his states National Guard troops from deployment along the border with Mexico and assign them to other duties.The step to rescind state authorization for the border deployment is a sharp rebuke of President Trumps continued warnings that undocumented migrants present a national security risk to the United States. It follows a similar move last week by Gov. Michelle Lujan Grisham of New Mexico.Under a general order that Mr. Newsom plans to sign, 110 California National Guard troops will be redirected to support the states central fire agency, Cal Fire, and another 100 will work on statewide intelligence operations aimed at international criminal drug gangs.Mr. Newsom is also seeking to expand the states Counterdrug Task Force with 150 National Guard troops, which would require funding from the Department of Defense.[This month, were launching a limited-run weekly newsletter about life on the border, far from the tug-of-war of Washington politics. Sign up here to receive the first issue of Crossing the Border when it launches.]Since his election in November, Mr. Newsom has emphasized a progressive vision for California and the country, pitching his state as a leader on issues like immigration, climate change and income inequality. He promised last month to offer an alternative to the corruption and incompetence in the White House.Mr. Newsom is expected to speak publicly about the redeployment during his State of the State address on Tuesday, with sharp criticism of the presidents immigration policies and rhetoric.The National Guard has had an expanded presence in California since April, when Mr. Newsoms predecessor, Jerry Brown, agreed to add 400 troops to shore up border-related security at the request of the Trump administration.At the time, Mr. Brown stressed that the deployment, which was financed by the federal government, would support efforts to go after criminal gangs, human traffickers and drug smugglers. He said the troops would not be used to enforce federal immigration policies.This will not be a mission to build a new wall, Mr. Brown wrote in a letter to Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of homeland security, and Jim Mattis, who was secretary of defense at the time.It will not be a mission to round up women and children or detain people escaping violence and seeking a better life, Mr. Brown wrote, adding, There is no massive wave of migrants pouring into California. Overall immigrant apprehensions on the border last year were as low as theyve been in nearly 50 years.Mr. Newsom and Mr. Brown are both Democrats. So is Governor Grisham of New Mexico, though the predecessor whose deployment decision she reversed was a Republican.Before the April deployment, there were about 250 National Guard troops serving in California, and 55 of them were stationed at the border. Under federal law, the troops are paid by the federal government but are under the control of the governor. It was not clear whether federal financing for the troops would continue after Mr. Newsoms redirection order.Mr. Browns letter authorizing the deployment was largely seen at the time as a denunciation of President Trumps immigration policies, but many activists and elected officials in the state sharply criticized Mr. Brown for agreeing to any guard deployment at all.Last summer, Kevin De Len, who was then the State Senate leader, urged Mr. Brown to not be complicit in the administrations hard-line immigration priorities, which he called driven by racial animus. Mr. De Leon, a Democrat, drafted the state law limiting coordination between local authorities and immigration enforcement agents, known colloquially as the sanctuary state law, which Mr. Brown signed in 2017.Despite the criticism, Mr. Brown later extended state authorization for the National Guard presence at the border through March 2019.Mr. Trump initially thanked Mr. Brown for the deployment, which was part of a national deployment of up to 4,000 troops authorized by Mr. Mattis. But to the confusion of many Californians, Mr. Trump later blasted the governor for placing limits on what the troops could do.Looks like Jerry Brown and California are not looking for safety and security along their very porous Border, Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. He cannot come to terms for the National Guard to patrol and protect the Border. The high crime rate will only get higher.Illegal border crossings have been sharply declining for years. Apprehensions of undocumented migrants by border patrol agents are near historic lows. And undetected crossings have fallen to 62,000 in 2016 from 851,000 in 2006, according to the Department of Homeland Security. Several studies indicate that crime rates are lower among immigrants than among native-born Americans.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byNow in its fourth week, the government shutdown has had wide-ranging effects.By Niraj ChokshiThis article is no longer being updated. For the latest news on the government shutdown, click here. The countrys federal courts, which have been open and operating despite the shutdown, could be close to running out of money. Some courts have delayed civil cases, and court-appointed lawyers have not been paid at all. A crippled judiciary system could put enormous pressure on President Trump and Congress to make a deal. The Midwest and Northeast are bracing for a major winter storm this weekend. Employees at the National Weather Service are furloughed during the shutdown, but many forecasters there are considered essential and are working without pay. Veterans in emergency management are worried about longer-term trouble, though. Weather forecasters and emergency responders on the federal, state and local levels have fallen behind on critical preparation, research and analysis that typically takes place this time of the year ahead of the hurricane season. Mr. Trump and the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, far from reaching a resolution, have gotten personal. Ms. Pelosi threatened to cancel the presidents State of the Union address, prompting Mr. Trump to deny her military transport to Afghanistan. She and other lawmakers planned to fly commercial, but aides on Friday said the Trump administration leaked those plans. She postponed the trip, citing security concerns. Publicly, Mr. Trump has projected confidence, but he has expressed private frustration over what he views as negative coverage. Many Republicans concede, also in private, that he has made strategic errors and allowed dysfunction to continue.While Mr. Trump has enjoyed their support so far, the question remains: How long will his partys lawmakers continue to back him? While support for the wall among Republican voters appears to have hardened, broadly the border wall remains unpopular.House Democrats have been privately weighing action that would counter Mr. Trumps demand for a wall with their own proposals for border security. This would be a shift in strategy for them, considering theyve resisted wading into the border security debate during the shutdown.[See how the effects of the government shutdown are piling up.]When it began, the shutdown left about 800,000 federal workers without pay, with just over half continuing to work, including members of the Coast Guard and food safety inspectors. The number of people working has grown as the Trump administration reinterprets longstanding rules, often to the benefit of the presidents base. Many federal workers have filed for unemployment benefits. In Washington, local programs have sprouted up to support the citys large, struggling federal work force. Nationally, an informal network of businesses has also mobilized to ease the pain.But such stories underscore an irony of the shutdown: Federal jobs have long been seen as being among the most stable, even though now they are anything but.[Sign up for the Morning Briefing newsletter for a look at what you need to know to begin your day.]The White House admitted this week that the shutdown has had a far greater toll on the United States economy than previously thought.Americans are confident in their own finances, but have become increasingly concerned about the economy overall during the shutdown, according to a new poll conducted for The New York Times by the online research firm SurveyMonkey. Legions of contractors are out of work and, unlike federal employees working without pay, they have no expectation of recovering the missed wages.For American farmers, the shutdown has compounded concerns about Mr. Trumps trade war with China. To ease their pain, the president created a $12 billion bailout fund, but that is frozen because of the shutdown. On Wednesday, the Agriculture Department said that it would temporarily call back about 2,500 workers to help farmers and ranchers with existing loans and to provide them with necessary tax documents.The shutdown has had cascading effects, too. Craft beer brewers, for example, cant get approval for new equipment or for labels on new lines of beer until their Treasury Department regulators return to work. And young people across the country have been affected in various ways, from having to worry with their parents over lost jobs and wages to being unable to pay tuition or file financial aid forms. [A typical federal worker has missed $5,000 in pay from the shutdown so far.]Matthew Haag and Liam Stack contributed reporting.Niraj Chokshi is a general assignment reporter based in New York. Before joining The Times in 2016, he covered state governments for The Washington Post. He has also worked at The Atlantic, National Journal and The Recorder, in San Francisco.  @nirajc Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported bySo far its a vindication of the rule of law. Now the public needs to read it.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.Give President Trump this much: In the face of the biggest existential threat to his presidency, the special counsels Russia investigation, he checked himself where it mattered most.Yes, his near-daily campaign to mock and discredit Robert Muellers witch hunt has now lasted longer than his campaign for the White House. His shameful, conspiratorial attacks on the deep state, and on the integrity of those who have devoted their lives to upholding the rule of law, have damaged the institutions of federal law enforcement and may have gotten him in even deeper trouble.Still, one persistent danger  that Mr. Trump would find a way to scuttle the investigation before it could be completed  never materialized. On Friday afternoon, Mr. Mueller, nearly two years after he was appointed to look into possible ties between the Trump campaign and the Russian government, delivered a full report of his findings and recommendations to the attorney general, as required by Justice Department regulations.Mr. Trump even joined a remarkably bipartisan House of Representatives, along with a vast majority of the American public, in calling for the release of Mr. Muellers report. Let people see it, he said on Wednesday. There was no collusion. There was no obstruction. There was no nothing.On the first point, we can all agree. William Barr, the attorney general, needs to release as much of Mr. Muellers work as he possibly can, and soon.Well reserve judgment on the second. It may prove that Mr. Trump has kept repeating his mantra of no collusion because its true. But even if Mr. Mueller has found in the end that Mr. Trump did not knowingly conspire with Russia  and it is profoundly to be hoped that the report settles that question, one way or the other  that doesn't mean this inquiry has been a witch hunt.Throughout the campaign and transition, Mr. Trump and many of his top officials and advisers had more than 100 contacts with Russian nationals and WikiLeaks, or their intermediaries. These contacts were apparently so unmemorable that many Trump advisers forgot all about them, even when asked under oath.Lying to federal officials is a crime, and at least four of Mr. Trumps top aides (so far) have copped to doing it about their Russian contacts: Michael Flynn, the presidents first national security adviser; Rick Gates, the deputy campaign chairman; George Papadopoulos, a foreign policy adviser on the campaign; and Michael Cohen, the presidents longtime personal lawyer and fixer.Paul Manafort is also accused of lying repeatedly to investigators, but thats the least of his problems. Mr. Manafort, who served as Mr. Trumps campaign chairman for three months, is now serving seven-plus years in prison for money laundering and other crimes related to his years of lucrative work for political clients in Ukraine.And dont forget Roger Stone, whose adventure through the justice system has only just begun. Mr. Stone, a longtime Trump adviser and political dirty trickster with roots going back to the Nixon administration, was arrested in January in an early-morning raid at his home and charged with multiple counts of false statements, obstruction of justice and witness tampering.Quite a team Mr. Trump surrounded himself with! And we havent even gotten to his son Donald Trump Jr., who needed no arm-twisting to accept a Russian offer of assistance during the campaign (If its what you say I love it, especially later in the summer), and his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, who seemed to have his hands in everything.At the heart of it all is Mr. Trumps own behavior  his unexplained affection for the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, and his knack for knowing just the right time to encourage election interference. Russia, if youre listening, I hope youre able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing, Mr. Trump, in a reference to Hillary Clintons emails, said on July 27, 2016  the same day, as it happened, that the Russians began doing just that. (Last year, Mr. Mueller gained the indictment of 12 Russian military intelligence officers for their role in hacking computer servers of the Clinton campaign and the Democratic National Committee.)Then there are the times Mr. Trump interfered in the investigation himself  first urging then-F.B.I. director James Comey to drop the bureaus investigation into Mr. Flynn, then firing Mr. Comey when he refused. Two days later, Mr. Trump said on national television that hed fired Mr. Comey at least in part because of this Russia thing with Trump and Russia.This doesnt count roughly a dozen other investigations into the president, several of which could ultimately expose him to even greater legal or political peril than Mr. Muellers. Most serious is the investigation by federal prosecutors in New York, which has already resulted in a three-year prison sentence for Mr. Cohen for his role in committing federal campaign-finance crimes to cover up hush-money payments to women claiming they had affairs with Mr. Trump  a cover-up that prosecutors say Mr. Trump aided after becoming president.Last month, Mr. Cohen spent some of his last moments as a free man testifying before Congress that Mr. Trump also lied during the campaign about negotiations to build a long-planned skyscraper in Moscow, which were continuing through much of 2016. Didnt he worry that the lies could come back to hurt him? He never expected to win the election, Mr. Cohen said.Whether or not a sitting president can be indicted is a long-running debate among lawyers, but either way, Mr. Trump is sure to be under investigation for the rest of his term in office, and probably in court for the rest of his life.If he were less self-involved or paranoid, Mr. Trump would be grateful that his investigator was a man whose name is synonymous with integrity and fairness  and not, as the journalist Garrett Graff wrote, the Democratic version of Ken Starr.Whatever Mr. Trumps reasons for doing the right thing and letting Mr. Mueller complete his work  bluffing, self-interest or resignation  they matter less than the fact that he did it. It may be a low bar, but given Mr. Trumps demonstrated contempt for ideals of justice, its still something. No matter what Mr. Muellers efforts have turned up, the fact that he is now presenting his findings free of presidential interference is a bit of good news for the rule of law in America.Now all Americans deserve the chance to review those findings and reach their own conclusions. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byMediatorBy Jim RutenbergEven by the tweeting habits of the 45th president of the United States, it was a puzzler.Until you examined it. Then it started to make sense.A Twitter post on Sunday night showed Mr. Trump  in the middle of the longest federal government shutdown in American history  reveling in the lurid revelations surrounding the impending divorce of Jeff Bezos and his wife of 25 years, MacKenzie Bezos.In attacking the founder and chief executive of Amazon, President Trump praised The National Enquirer for publishing an article in its Jan. 28 edition with the all-caps headline: BEZOS DIVORCE! THE CHEATING PHOTOS THAT ENDED HIS MARRIAGE.In the same tweet  which made use of the sarcasm and schoolyard-style nicknaming that has endeared him to his base of supporters  the president saw fit to insult The Washington Post, the newspaper Mr. Bezos has owned since 2013.So sorry to hear the news about Jeff Bozo being taken down by a competitor whose reporting, I understand, is far more accurate than the reporting in his lobbyist newspaper, the Amazon Washington Post.Mr. Trump has attacked Mr. Bezos, Amazon and the newspaper since his presidential campaign, suggesting in the most un-Republican of ways  and falsely  that Mr. Bezos uses the newspaper as a lobbying arm to stave off higher taxes and antitrust enforcement for Amazon. To hammer home his unfounded theory, the president has referred to the paper as the Amazon Washington Post more than a dozen times since 2015, although Mr. Bezos, not the company, is the owner.That Mr. Trump would slap a childish sobriquet on a man he perceives as a threat is not news. (See Schiff, Adam, whose name the president spun into a vulgarity in a November tweet.) Nor is it news that he went after The Post  a newspaper that has been a thorough and aggressive chronicler of his presidency and the various investigations it has drawn.The news contained in the tweet on Sunday was something that, at first glance, may not seem like news at all: his praise for The Enquirer.Sure, The Enquirer turned itself into an effective cheering squad and opposition research shop for Mr. Trump before, during and after the presidential campaign. As part of the effort, the tabloids owner, American Media Inc., arranged to effectively silence Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model who claimed to have had an affair with Mr. Trump, with a $150,000 payout. And David J. Pecker, the chairman of American Media, was famously close to Mr. Trump.Emphasis on was.In recent weeks, Mr. Pecker has emerged as a cooperating witness in the federal investigation that prosecutors in the Southern District of New York are pursuing into the schemes to pay six figures to Ms. McDougal and Stormy Daniels, another woman whose story of an affair with Mr. Trump was buried by the company.In the Sunday-night tweet, Mr. Trump was effectively vouching for the credibility of Mr. Pecker and his newspaper  whose name in the Trump era hasnt exactly been equated with accuracy. To wit, Hillary Clinton is still alive, proving that The Enquirers campaign-year reports of her imminent death were a bit of an exaggeration.Mr. Peckers word is of high value to prosecutors  and highly dangerous to Mr. Trump.Mr. Pecker provided vital corroboration for the story told by Mr. Trumps former lawyer and fixer, Michael Cohen, when he pleaded guilty last year to arranging the payments to Ms. Daniels and Ms. McDougal.Mr. Cohen said he had arranged them with the full knowledge that they were equivalent to illegal campaign disbursements, because they were intended to help Mr. Trump win the election. He also said he had made the payments at Mr. Trumps direction, essentially accusing his former boss of being the driving force behind the whole thing.In December, Mr. Cohen was sentenced to three years in prison on those charges and others. In a court filing provided ahead of that sentencing, the New York prosecutors disclosed the extent of American Medias cooperation. The companys willingness to help is why there have been no charges against those involved with the running of the tabloid, prosecutors said.The cooperation of American Media officers was highly significant, because Mr. Cohen made for a flawed witness. His long track record of lies meant anything he said to law enforcement officials would require corroboration, if it were to be of any real value.After months of public denials that the payment to Ms. McDougal had been coordinated with Mr. Trump or Mr. Cohen, American Media flipped the script, telling prosecutors that it had coughed up the cash in cooperation, consultation and concert with, and at the request and suggestion of, one or more members or agents of Mr. Trumps campaign. The publisher also explained why it had done so  so that Ms. McDougal did not publicize damaging allegations and thereby influence that election.Further placing Mr. Trump at the center of the scheme, American Media told prosecutors that all the way back in August 2015, Mr. Pecker had met with Mr. Trump and Mr. Cohen and offered to help deal with negative stories about that presidential candidates relationships with women by, among other things, assisting the campaign in identifying such stories so they could be purchased and their publication avoided. Mr. Cohen was Mr. Trumps point man in the effort.That helped bolster the argument that Mr. Trump was effectively an unindicted co-conspirator, making Mr. Cohen, in Trump parlance  as well as that of Al Capone  a rat.Thats why the unreported speculation on cable news and social media last week that The Enquirers coverage of Mr. Bezos had been cooked up between Mr. Trump and American Media seemed out of whack to those of us who have covered the story.If facts come to light confirming that such a collaboration existed, it will be another jaw-dropper of a story. But for now, sans evidence, it seems that The Enquirer was fulfilling its traditional role of digging up dirt on the rich and famous when it went after Mr. Bezos.The president had other reasons to compliment the paper, however. American Medias agreement with prosecutors extends for three years  and Mr. Pecker, as weve reported, is sitting on decades of Trump dirt that it refrained from publishing during the campaign. That means that he remains someone the president may want to keep on his good side, despite their recent differences. Its worth noting that Mr. Trump has not publicly called Mr. Pecker a co-rat, at least so far.And there is this key dictum of Mr. Trumps brand of politics: The enemy of my enemy is my friend, if only for a news cycle.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael WinesWASHINGTON  A federal judge blocked the Commerce Department from adding a question on American citizenship to the 2020 census, handing a legal victory on Tuesday to critics who accused the Trump administration of trying to turn the census into a tool to advance Republican political fortunes.The ruling marks the opening round in a legal battle with potentially profound ramifications for federal policy and for politics at all levels, one that seems certain to reach the Supreme Court before the printing of census forms begins this summer.The upcoming census count will determine which states gain or lose seats in the House of Representatives when redistricting begins in 2021. When the Trump administration announced last year it was adding a citizenship question to the census, opponents argued the results would undercount noncitizens and legal immigrants  who tend to live in places that vote Democratic  and shift political power to Republican areas.In a lengthy and stinging opinion, Judge Jesse M. Furman of the United States District Court in Manhattan said that Wilbur L. Ross Jr., the commerce secretary, broke a veritable smorgasbord of federal rules when he ordered the citizenship question added to the census nearly a year ago. Judge Furman said Mr. Ross cherry-picked facts to support his views, ignored or twisted contrary evidence and hid deliberations from Census Bureau experts.Judge Furman also criticized Mr. Ross and his aides for giving false or misleading statements under oath as they struggled to explain their rationale for adding the question.The Trump administration argued in court that Mr. Ross had the power to add the question and that past surveys had asked about citizenship. On Tuesday, a Justice Department spokeswoman, Kelly Laco, said officials were disappointed by the ruling and were still reviewing it.Our government is legally entitled to include a citizenship question on the census and people in the United States have a legal obligation to answer, she said in a prepared statement. Reinstating the citizenship question ultimately protects the right to vote and helps ensure free and fair elections for all Americans.The Trump administrations next move is unclear. Government lawyers could appeal the ruling or seek a stay in the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit  or go straight to the Supreme Court and ask justices to intervene.Roughly 24 million noncitizens live in the United States, and nearly 11 million of them do so illegally. Nearly one in 10 households includes at least one noncitizen. Evidence in the eight-day trial in November indicated that the question could deter not just noncitizens and immigrants from completing the census form, but Hispanics and others of foreign descent.The 14th Amendment requires the House to be apportioned based on the whole number of persons in each state, and the Supreme Court has long ruled that the whole number includes noncitizens.This ruling is a forceful rebuke of the Trump administrations attempt to weaponize the census for an attack on immigrant communities, said Dale Ho, director of the A.C.L.U.s Voting Rights Project, adding that evidence at the trial exposed how adding a citizenship question would wreck the once-in-a-decade count of the nations population.Mr. Ross, whose department oversees the Census Bureau, stated initially that he first examined the need for the citizenship question after getting a request from the Justice Department. In a letter to the Commerce Department, a senior Justice Department official stated that census data on citizenship would help the agency more precisely determine whether the racial or ethnic composition of political districts met the mandates of the 1965 Voting Rights Act.Mr. Ross said his review of whether to add the question did not support warnings that it would lead to an undercount of noncitizens and minorities who feared disclosing their citizenship status to the government.Judge Furman, who was nominated to the federal bench by President Barack Obama in 2011, all but demolished that explanation in his ruling.Mr. Ross materially mischaracterized a conversation with a polling expert to make it appear that she did not object to adding the question to the census, Judge Furman said, and he kept Census Bureau officials in the dark about his desire for a citizenship question for nearly a year, forgoing any chance for a detailed study of its ramifications. The judge also rejected a sworn deposition on aspects of the question by Mr. Rosss chief aide, Earl Comstock, calling it misleading, if not false.But while Mr. Rosss violations were egregious, Judge Furman said, there was not sufficient evidence to prove, as plaintiffs in the lawsuit had claimed, that he had deliberately sought to discriminate against noncitizens and minorities who were most likely to be affected by the citizenship question. In part, he said, that was because the Supreme Court had blocked the plaintiffs from taking sworn testimony from Mr. Ross about his actions.In his ruling, Judge Furman said he could not discern Mr. Rosss real reason for seeking to add the question to the census. But he said it was clear that Mr. Ross and his aides had decided within months of taking office in February 2017 that he wanted to add the question, and that the goal of the Justice Department letter was to launder their request through another agency  that is, to obtain cover for a decision that they had already made.Internal documents produced in the lawsuit showed that Mr. Ross had discussed the citizenship issue early in his tenure with Stephen K. Bannon, the former White House chief strategist and an architect of the Trump administrations tough policies against immigrants, and that he had met at Mr. Bannons direction with Kris Kobach, the former Kansas secretary of state and a far-right opponent of immigration.Other internal documents showed that Justice Department officials actually had not initiated a request for a citizenship question, and in fact had rejected an initial plea from the Commerce Department to do so in the summer of 2017.In sworn testimony, the departments senior civil rights official conceded that census data was not necessary to enforce the Voting Rights Act, and that citizenship information from the American Community Survey and its predecessor had been used for more than five decades without difficulty.The Census Bureau itself had recommended against adding a citizenship question, estimating in an analysis last January that at least 630,000 households would refuse to fill out the 2020 questionnaire if such a question were included.Government lawyers argued repeatedly during the trial that none of that mattered, because Mr. Ross had broad leeway in making his decision. That statistical experts disagreed with Mr. Ross was immaterial to this case, Deputy Assistant Attorney General Brett A. Shumate told the court. All the secretary is required to do is to provide a reasoned explanation, he said. He doesnt have to choose the best option.Judge Furman said he agreed. But he added that federal law requires that before making such a decision, an agency has to study the relevant information, arrive at a rational decision supported by evidence and honestly articulate its reasons for the decision.He concluded in his opinion that the record makes plain that Secretary Rosss decision fell short on all these fronts.An earlier version of this article misstated Stephen K. Bannons former position in the White House. He was the chief strategist, not the chief of staff.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Edmund Lee and John KoblinThe game of thrones at NBCUniversal has begun.The company on Monday announced a series of executive changes that could set the stage for the next generation of leaders at a media empire that includes the NBC broadcast network; Universal Film Studios; and cable channels such as Bravo and MSNBC, which has seen a ratings surge during the Trump administration.Stephen B. Burke, the chief executive, streamlined the management structure by putting Jeff Shell in charge of Hollywood operations, including the international business and Telemundo, and having Mark Lazarus oversee the broadcast network, the news division, the cable networks and the sports group.Bonnie Hammer, 68, the longtime head of the companys profitable cable portfolio, has been put in charge of an advertising-supported streaming service that was announced Monday and is expected to debut early next year. It will compete with new stand-alone streaming products from the Walt Disney Company and AT&Ts WarnerMedia, as well as entrenched players like Netflix and Hulu. Disneys and WarnerMedias products are expected to debut at the end of this year.Many in the industry interpreted the moves as Mr. Burkes positioning a showdown between Mr. Lazarus and Mr. Shell to be his possible successor. Effectively, Mr. Burke, 60, has set up an East Coast and West Coast divide: Mr. Lazarus will control much of the company from NBCs operations in New York and Stamford, Conn., and Mr. Shell will take over the Hollywood assets from Burbank, Calif.Mark and Jeff, I think, are two of the most capable people in the entertainment business, Mr. Burke said in an interview in his offices at 30 Rockefeller Plaza in Manhattan. Everyone has been very supportive of each other. It was just time.As for what the moves mean for Mr. Burkes future, he added, Im not going anywhere.Mr. Burke was appointed the head of NBCUniversal in 2011 after Comcast completed its acquisition of the media giant. At the time, over 20 executives reported directly to him. The latest changes will bring that number down to 12.We can move faster now, he said.Mr. Lazarus, 55, has been the head of NBC Sports since 2011, when he replaced Dick Ebersol. He will now oversee NBC News, MSNBC and the moneymaking cable portfolio that includes Bravo, USA and the E! network. Andrew Lack, the NBC News chairman, will report to Mr. Lazarus.Mr. Shell, 53, will continue to oversee the film division and also have control of NBC Entertainment as well as the international division and Telemundo. The NBC Entertainment co-chairmen Paul Telegdy and George Cheeks, who replaced Robert Greenblatt in September, will report to Mr. Shell. Before coming to NBC Universal in 2013, Mr. Shell was an executive in Comcasts programming group.The move to streaming will be a big one for Ms. Hammer, who joined Universal three decades ago. She has overseen many of NBCs profitable cable properties for several years, and is one of the most powerful women in television.Mr. Burke said that he had considered executives from outside the ranks to run the streaming business, but that Ms. Hammer was the right person.She didnt hesitate, he added.She will be joined by two executives from Sky, the British pay-TV operator that Comcast won in a bidding war with Disney last year. Sky is primarily known as a satellite broadcaster, but it has developed a robust streaming service that runs across several European territories. NBCUniversal hopes to take advantage of their experience.Jumping into streaming has become the go-to strategy for established media businesses. Disney bought most of Rupert Murdochs 21st Century Fox business with the idea that it would start selling shows and films directly to consumers. AT&T bought Time Warner for the same purpose. As more people cut their cable subscriptions, streaming services are taking a share of that business.But NBCUniversal is taking a two-sided approach that aims to keep the cable business intact. The ad-supported product will be free to anyone who has a cable or satellite account, but for cord cutters there will be a pay option.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Fahim AbedKABUL, Afghanistan  Two United States service members were killed during a joint operation with Afghan forces in northern Afghanistan on Friday, bringing to four the American combat deaths in Afghanistan so far this year, Afghan and American officials said.A spokeswoman for the American-led NATO mission in Afghanistan confirmed the two deaths in a brief statement, but it did not release any details of the attack.The incident is under investigation and we have no additional information to provide, said the spokeswoman, Sgt. 1st Class Debra Richardson.Qayum Nuristani, a spokesman for the Afghan special forces, said that the operation was in northern Kunduz Province. One Afghan commando was killed and three others were wounded, he said, adding that many Taliban had also been killed in the fighting.Amruddin Wali, a member of provincial council in Kunduz, said that the Afghan and American forces were conducting a military operation against the Taliban in Gul Tepa District.Both Afghan and U.S. forces suffered casualties in the operation, he said, without providing an exact figure. The district is completely in the Taliban control.In 2018, 13 American troops were killed in combat in Afghanistan, up from 11 in 2017. Two American soldiers were killed in separate attacks in Uruzgan and Badghis Provinces in January.There are roughly 14,000 American troops in Afghanistan. In December 2018, the Trump administration ordered the military to begin plans to withdraw about 7,000 American troops from the country in coming months. But the drawdown has not yet started, and military officials have been unable to clarify how many troops will leave the country, or by when.After the latest talks between United States and Taliban officials in Qatar, Zalmay Khalilzad, the chief American peace envoy, said the two sides had reached a draft agreement on two of four elements necessary for a settlement: assurances that Afghanistan would not become a haven for terrorism, and a timeline for an American military withdrawal.Naseer Rahin contributed reporting.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byAmy Klobuchar, Sherrod Brown and how to be a middle-class fighter.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistA few weeks ago, the pollsters at Monmouth University asked Democrats across the country to choose between two different kinds of nominees. One was a candidate whom the voter agreed with on most issues but who might struggle to beat President Trump. The other was the reverse  a strong candidate with different views from those of the person being polled.It was a rout. About 56 percent preferred the more electable candidate, compared with 33 percent who picked the more ideologically in-sync candidate. The gap was even larger among women and liberal Democrats. Patrick Murray, who runs the Monmouth poll, points out that this pattern isnt normal. In previous campaigns, voters cared more about ideology than electability.I think there are two main reasons for the switch. The first, of course, is the awfulness of the Trump presidency. But the less obvious reason is important too: The differences among most of the leading Democratic presidential candidates just arent very big right now.[Sign up for David Leonhardts daily newsletter  with commentary on the news and reading suggestions from around the web.]They all favor policies to lift incomes and reduce living costs for the middle class and poor. They all favor tax increases on the rich. They all favor climate action, voting rights and expanded Medicare. Most voters understand that choosing a candidate with modestly different ideas about how to achieve these goals isnt much of a sacrifice.So if Democrats wanted to identify their best hope for beating Trump, what would that candidate look like?Above all, it would be a candidate good at persuading Americans that he or she was on their side  on their side against the forces causing the stagnation of American living standards. More specifically, this candidate would be someone who could persuade swing voters of this allegiance.Swing voters still exist. Enough Americans switched from backing Barack Obama in 2012 to Donald Trump in 2016 to House Democrats in 2018 to help decide those elections. I understand why some Democratic activists are instead drawn to the idea of victory through turnout: It offers the promise of avoiding any political compromise. The problem is, there are virtually no examples of Democrats winning close races without emphasizing persuasion. The 2018 attempts, in Florida, Georgia and Texas, all fell short.Yet progressives shouldnt despair  because swing voters are quite progressive, especially on economic issues. For years, weve been hearing about a kind of fantasy swing voter, conjured by political pundits and corporate chieftains, who is socially liberal and economically conservative (as many pundits and chieftains are). The actual swing voter leans decidedly left on economics, in favor of tax increases on the rich, opposed to Medicare cuts and skeptical of big business.Still, these swing voters dont think of themselves as radical. They are typically patriotic and religious. Many think of themselves as moderate and, strange as it may sound, many thought of Trump as moderate in 2016. When Republicans can paint a Democrat as an out-of-touch elitist  like they did Hillary Clinton, John Kerry, Al Gore or Michael Dukakis  the Republican candidate often wins these voters. When Democrats can instead come off as middle-class fighters, they tend to win.In the 2020 field, two Democrats have the strongest track record of running as middle-class fighters: Amy Klobuchar and Sherrod Brown.They are both Midwestern senators, Klobuchar (who launched her campaign Sunday) from Minnesota, Brown (who hasnt yet decided whether to run) from Ohio. They both have a populist folksiness to them. And, no, those arent racial code words. Obama also won swing voters thanks in part to populist folksiness.About the power of large corporations, Klobuchar has said, The public is at a breaking point. She talks constantly about lowering health care costs. Brown talks constantly about restoring the dignity of work. Both have also smartly avoided some ideas that play better with liberal Twitter than swing voters, like the fever dream of eliminating private health insurance.And both of them win elections. Last year, while most Ohio Democrats were getting trounced, Brown won, by seven percentage points. Klobuchar won her own re-election in a landslide. She even won in two of the only three House districts nationwide  both outside of the Twin Cities  that flipped from Democrat to Republican last year. Shes a progressive whos found a way to connect with a wide range of people Democrats often struggle to reach, Lawrence Jacobs of the University of Minnesota told me. The Klobuchar message is: You can be both progressive and electable.In her Senate races, Amy Klobuchar has won more votes than other Democrats on the ballot in Minnesota.2018Klobuchar60.3%Walz (Gov.)53.8T. Smith (Sen.)53.0Ellison (Att. Gen.)49.02012Klobuchar65.2%Obama (Pres.)52.72006Klobuchar58.1%Swanson (Att. Gen.)53.2Hatch (Gov.)45.7Note: Total general-election vote share in each race.By The New York TimesKlobuchar and Brown do have weaknesses. She is battling accusations of having been a harsh boss, which seem to be a mix of sexist stereotype and some truth. Brown, as a middle-aged white guy not known for rhetorical greatness, will have to show he isnt too boring to stand out in a crowded field.But if I were Trump, I would fear Klobuchar and Brown. Either would be well positioned to take back blue-collar states Trump needs, like Wisconsin, Michigan, Pennsylvania and maybe even Ohio and Iowa. They could also play well in the Sunbelt suburbs of Arizona, Florida and North Carolina.And if I were the other 2020 Democrats, Id be studying how Klobuchar and Brown have succeeded where so many other Democrats have been failing.Sign up for David Leonhardts daily newsletter with commentary on the news and reading suggestions from around the web.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt  Facebook Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Sharon LaFraniere and Michael S. SchmidtWASHINGTON  The indictment unsealed Friday against President Trumps longtime adviser Roger J. Stone Jr. raised anew the perennial question about the Russia investigation: Will any Trump associate be charged for what Mr. Trump loves to refer to as collusion?Mr. Stone, the indictment said, conveyed information to the Trump campaign about WikiLeaks, the group that released thousands of Democratic emails and other documents in the months before the 2016 election. The Russians had stolen that material and delivered it to WikiLeaks as part of its broad effort to interfere in the American presidential election.But the indictment secured by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, does not contend that Mr. Stones efforts to connect with WikiLeaks were illegal. Instead, Mr. Stone was charged with lying to Congress about those efforts and trying to pressure an associate not to expose his lies.[Read the indictment against Mr. Stone.]Mr. Trumps legal team likes to say that collusion is not a crime. But that is a purely semantic argument because a conspiracy between two or more people or entities to commit an offense is a crime.The question is whether Mr. Muellers team will find evidence that the Trump campaign agreed to work with WikiLeaks or the Russian government, or both, in a conspiracy to violate some statute  such as laws that make it illegal to hack private information or that bar foreigners and foreign entities from expending resources to influence American elections.The indictment said that senior Trump campaign aides contacted Mr. Stone to inquire about future releases by WikiLeaks during the summer of 2016 as Mr. Trump clinched the Republican nomination. Mr. Stone responded, telling the Trump campaign about potential disclosures from WikiLeaks.Given that the Democrats had publicly stated as early as June 2016 that they believed Russian operatives had infiltrated their computers, the Trump campaigns eagerness to benefit from pilfered documents might seem distasteful. But merely being in touch with WikiLeaks does not rise to the level of a crime, former prosecutors said.Even if Trump campaign aides knew that the Russian government had funneled the stolen documents to WikiLeaks, the campaign would not be criminally culpable, they said. Knowing about someones else crime is a far cry from committing one.It is illegal for campaigns to accept foreign contributions, including services, which are considered in-kind donations. WikiLeaks is considered a foreign organization. So hypothetically, if the Trump campaign were actively involved in a scheme with WikiLeaks to bolster its own campaign, that might be a violation of the Federal Election Commission rules against foreign contributions.But at a minimum, that would require evidence that the Trump campaign knew that WikiLeaks was trying to damage Hillary Clintons candidacy, agreed with that objective and engaged in overt acts to further the scheme.Two or more people have to agree to do something that the law forbids, and at least one of them has to take a step to further the conspiracy  an overt act, said Chuck Rosenberg, a former United States attorney and senior F.B.I. official.What might constitute an overt act? If Trump campaign officials coordinated with Julian Assange, the organizations founder, on the timing and content of the document releases in an effort to maximize the damage to the Clinton campaign, that might qualify. But Mr. Mueller has offered no evidence of that.Maybe. Mr. Rosenberg cautioned against viewing Mr. Stones indictment as the final word on whether the Trump campaign did or did not conspire with WikiLeaks. I wouldnt take from the fact that they didnt charge it that they cant charge it or that they wont charge it, he said.The special counsel has mounted two criminal cases claiming illegal schemes to tilt the election results, both against Russians. Legal experts cited those cases as possible templates for what a conspiracy case involving the Trump campaign might look like, assuming the evidence existed to bring one.Thirteen Russians and three Russian companies were accused of conspiring to defraud the United States by illegally influencing the presidential election. That indictment said the Russians mounted an illicit social media campaign aimed at sowing political discord, undercutting Mrs. Clinton and promoting Mr. Trump. Their activities were illegal because foreigners cannot spend money to influence American elections or engage in political activity in the United States without registering with the Justice Department.In the other case, Mr. Mueller charged 12 Russian military officers with hacking into Democratic computers and releasing tens of thousands of stolen documents, using WikiLeaks and other means. That case alleged a conspiracy to commit computer crimes.As Mr. Trumps director of the Central Intelligence Agency, Mike Pompeo branded WikiLeaks a stateless hostile intelligence unit eager to do the bidding of Russia and other American adversaries.But the special counsel has not, so far, said that WikiLeaks was acting as an agent of the Russian government during the 2016 presidential race, much less claimed that the Trump campaign knew it was dealing with a Russian agent.It is not even entirely clear that WikiLeaks knew the source of its information was Russia. Russian operatives transferred the pilfered documents to the organization using a fake online persona, Guccifer 2.0.Mr. Stone himself defended WikiLeaks last year in a cable news interview. Asked if working with the organization would be treasonous, he replied: No, actually, I dont think so because for it to be a treasonous act, Assange would have to be probably a Russian asset and WikiLeaks would have to be a Russian front, and I do not believe that is the case.Whether prosecutors think so is unclear. Last year, the Justice Department inadvertently revealed that it had secretly charged Mr. Assange, but it remains unclear for what crimes. Mr. Assange has been holed up in the Ecuadorean Embassy in London for years for fear of criminal prosecution.The president publicly encouraged Russian operatives to infiltrate Mrs. Clintons emails during the 2016 campaign, saying they would probably be rewarded mightily by our press if they uncovered the messages. That same day, Russian hackers tried to break into servers that housed the emails for Mrs. Clintons personal office, according to court documents Mr. Mueller filed last year.But that alone is far from enough to land Mr. Trump in legal hot water.Legal experts said that prosecutors would need evidence that the Russians and Mr. Trump were working together  not merely that he encouraged computer espionage.Its cant just be cause and effect, there has to be some type of agreement  whether explicit or implicit  that shows they were working together and prosecutors would have to have the evidence to prove that beyond a reasonable doubt, said Joyce Vance, a professor of law at the University of Alabama and former United States attorney.Follow Sharon LaFraniere and Michael S. Schmidt on Twitter: @SharonLNYT and @NYTmike.Adam Goldman and Charlie Savage contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byFictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Alec Nevala-LeeTHE WALL By John LanchesterEarlier this year, The Times reported that President Trumps pledge to build a border wall had been invented by his advisers as a memory trick to keep an unpredictable candidate focused on the issue of immigration. This tells us a lot about Trump, but it also speaks to the power of the wall as a symbol, which is both monumental in its simplicity and elusive enough to sustain any number of meanings, often based  as Ursula K. Le Guin notes in The Dispossessed  on which side of it the observer happens to stand.This is the wall that fascinated Jorge Luis Borges, who marveled that the emperor who ordered the construction of the Great Wall of China also burned all of the books in his kingdom; and Pink Floyd, who put it on the cover of an album about a celebrity who dreams of becoming a dictator. John Lanchesters new novel, also called The Wall, arrives at a moment in which the definition of a wall is a matter of national debate, and it actively invites such associations. As the main character says on the first page, as he searches for words to describe the wall of the title, You look for metaphors.The narrator is a young man with the Kafkaesque name of Joseph Kavanagh. He has just arrived at the Wall, a long low concrete monster that runs for thousands of kilometers around the periphery of an unnamed island nation, closing it off completely from the outside world. All citizens are required to serve there for two years as Defenders, forming the last line of resistance against the threat of an armed invasion. This recalls the Nights Watch of Game of Thrones, except that the country is recognizably Britain, and the enemies on the other side arent supernatural White Walkers, but human beings in rowboats and dinghies.As in many dystopian novels, the narrative hints at its back story through the ominous appearance in the text of unexplained proper nouns  the Change, the Breeders, the Others  before revealing that an environmental cataclysm has produced rising sea levels and extreme weather across the globe. Britain, which has been spared the worst, uses the Wall  a literal Brexit  to keep out both water and unwanted immigrants. As Kavanagh makes modest plans for his future, falls in love and finds small forms of consolation, there are shades of Kazuo Ishiguros Never Let Me Go, but trouble lies ahead, and the second half turns into an ordeal that evokes Cormac McCarthys The Road.Like most of its literary precursors, The Wall opens long after the Change, which allows Lanchester to present his society as a given, without having to worry about the details of the transition  a luxury granted to novelists, if not politicians. The catastrophe evidently happened over a short period of time, creating a historical dividing line as decisive as the Wall itself, and everyone knows whose fault it was: The world hadnt always been like this and  the people responsible for it ending up like this were our parents  them and their generation.This kind of moral clarity has little to do with the real devastation wrought by climate change, which promises to be just gradual enough to allow those who caused it to avoid blame during their lifetimes. Lanchesters vision of an agonized cultural reckoning seems like its own sort of wishful thinking, and even if we grant his premise, many of his conclusions  like the notion that most people would stop having babies out of sheer guilt  are less than persuasive. Yet if the novel succeeds only intermittently as a parable, its gripping as a story, especially when it leaves the Wall. As Lanchester puts distance between himself and his gigantic symbol, the plot grows less constrained, and the last hundred pages are full of tense action and sudden reversals that are mercifully unburdened by any allegorical significance.The result marks a step forward for Lanchester, a formidably intelligent author who has sometimes stumbled over his undeniable gifts. His debut, The Debt to Pleasure, was so pleased by its Nabokovian conceit  a murderers confession posing as a cookbook  that it settled for a series of variations on the same dark joke. More recently, Capital was a credible effort at a big social novel that was so densely reported that its characters barely had room to interact or change.For a certain type of realistic novelist, a shift to speculative fiction  which allows the writer to invent as well as observe  can be liberating. The Wall revels in this opportunity, but it occasionally falters under Lanchesters decision, which echoes Never Let Me Go, to keep most of his people slightly colorless, as if to contrast their ordinary inner lives with their horrific situations. In practice, the narrators restricted voice prevents us from seeing his world as clearly as we should, and we learn frustratingly little about its most vulnerable actors  the climate refugees on the far side of the Wall.The novel gathers momentum as it goes, and few readers will stop until they reach its final page. Early in the book, Lanchester toys with the idea of concrete poetry, in which a poem is typeset to look like its subject, like a house or a Christmas tree. In its closing lines, like the album of the same name, the novel doubles back on itself to take the shape of the Wall  but it lives most vividly in the places where its meticulous structure breaks down. Lanchester constructs a more elegant wall in prose than any politician could in concrete, but the limits that it imposes on itself are still barriers, no matter how artistically designed.Alec Nevala-Lee is the author of the group biography Astounding: John W. Campbell, Isaac Asimov, Robert A. Heinlein, L. Ron Hubbard, and the Golden Age of Science Fiction.THE WALL By John Lanchester 254 pp. W.W. Norton & Company. $25.95.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Penn Bullock and Hiroko Masuike(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.) Good evening. Heres the latest.1. President Trump departed for Hanoi, Vietnam, for his second summit meeting with North Koreas leader, Kim Jong-un. Mr. Kim has arrived, after a long, winding train journey. Above, a banner for the meeting.Mr. Trump said he expected a very tremendous summit, amid indications that the administration may be preparing to deliver something that Mr. Kim desperately wants: a joint political statement declaring a formal end to the Korean War.Senator Lindsey Graham said in a tweet that the summit meeting was our last, best chance to end the nuclear conflict with North Korea on peaceful terms. We took a detailed look at how Mr. Graham, once a Trump skeptic, became the presidents unlikely sidekick._____2. Two major domestic events will be playing out in Washington while President Trump is traveling.On Tuesday, the House is to vote on a resolution to end Mr. Trumps national emergency, which he declared in order to use expanded powers to funnel money to his promised border wall. More than 25 former Republican lawmakers and nearly 60 former senior national security officials are urging Republicans to sign on, and there could be enough defections to give the measure momentum in the Senate. Above, construction this month on a border fence seen from Tijuana, Mexico.And on Wednesday, when Mr. Trump sits down with Kim Jong-un,  Michael Cohen is to testify in Congress about his 10 years of service to the Trump family.Mr. Cohen is expected to address Mr. Trumps finances, compliance with campaign finance laws and business matters._____3.  The trade war deadline has been delayed, but its not clear for how long.Over the weekend, President Trump halted plans to sharply escalate tariffs on Chinese imports on his March 1 deadline, saying that negotiators were making substantial progress and that President Xi Jinping of China would soon join him at Mar-a-Lago, Mr. Trumps Florida resort, for a signing summit. Above, a U.S. trade delegation meeting with Chinese counterparts last week.But the decision came amid growing concern among his advisers that the biggest trade deal in history could end up being modest, if one happens at all, and that Democrats could pounce on the issue in 2020.In China, the trade war and economic troubles have intensified the Communist Partys chronic fears of social unrest._____4. The stock market has had its best start since 1987.And that is strange, because whole categories of investors have been selling: pension funds and mutual funds, as well as nonprofit groups, endowments, private equity firms, personal trusts and armchair investors.So who is pushing prices higher? In part, the companies themselves.Flush with cash from last years tax cuts and a growing economy, they have already bought back more than $190 billion of their own shares  a practice that before the early 1980s was considered a legal gray area._____5. The 91st Academy Awards went off in Los Angeles without a host and largely without a hitch. Oh, except for that controversy over best picture.The Academy is getting intense blowback for giving the honor to Green Book, a segregation-era buddy film. What some experienced as a feel-good depiction of people bonding against the odds struck others as retrograde and even bigoted. Our critics Manohla Dargis, A. O. Scott and Wesley Morris discussed the aftermath. Above, the principals of Green Book celebrating.Here are the full list of winners and the fashion from the red carpet, a place that has become more welcoming and political._____6. Vice President Mike Pence announced additional sanctions against Venezuela, targeting four officials allied with President Nicols Maduro. He promised an additional $56 million in aid and urged regional leaders to freeze assets of the state oil company.The sanctions came after efforts to get aid into the country foundered amid scattered deadly violence. Just one truck made it across the border.Meeting in the Colombian capital, Bogot, with the Venezuelan opposition leader, Juan Guaid, above left, Mr. Pence said that the tragic events had only steeled Americas resolve._____7. Britains opposition Labour Party said that it was prepared to support a second referendum on withdrawal from the E.U.After the resignations of nine Labour Party members last week, and with more looming, the partys leader, Jeremy Corbyn, above center, dropped his longstanding resistance to a second vote on leaving the bloc. But getting an amendment for a new vote through Parliament any time soon is unlikely.Mr. Corbyn, a lifelong critic of the E.U. and a socialist, has drawn much of his support from disaffected young people in Britain who grew up under austerity and are now turning to trade unionism and socialism._____8. As Democrats seek a path back to the White House in 2020, they are debating whether to redouble efforts in Rust Belt states like Pennsylvania and Wisconsin that went for President Trump in 2016. Above, Senator Kamala Harris, a presidential contender, campaigning in Iowa on Saturday.The other option is to reach more for Sun Belt states, like Georgia, Florida and even Texas, that have shown flashes of blue.The question goes to the heart of a conflict over the partys ideology  whether Democrats will become more progressive or more centrist. Candidates who have joined the race so far appear to be trying to do both.Meanwhile, upping the populist theme of her run, Senator Elizabeth Warren said she would no longer hold private fund-raisers and one-on-one meetings with big donors._____9. Now, a matter of universal concern. Scientists have been grappling with a discrepancy in their models of the universe. It appears to be expanding 9 percent faster than previously thought, changing the forecast for the ultimate fate of everything.In the short term, scientists are rewriting cosmic history. They have invoked a new particle and a theoretical force that could have emerged about 100,000 years after the Big Bang, sped up the expansion and then vanished._____10. Finally, are you reading this on your cellphone?Cellphones are so present for many of us that theyre practically limbs  with deficits.Studies have shown that people who dont charge their phones in their bedrooms are significantly happier than those who do. Phubbing, or snubbing a person in favor of your phone, is hurtful.Our columnist Kevin Roose, above on a Skype call with his digital detox coach, tried a phone fast. He capped weeks of diminished use with a 48-hour total break. He felt just great.Have a distraction-free evening.Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And dont miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
Paul Manaforts Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dads Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: Coal Mining Isnt Coming BackHouse Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab SpringCan The President Be Impeached? We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season
"AdvertisementSupported byOn Politics With Lisa LererBy Lisa LererHi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. Im Lisa Lerer, your host.[Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.]Hes running!Julin Castro, the former housing secretary and former mayor of San Antonio, Tex., said on Saturday that he will run for president. The first major Latino candidate to make a 2020 bid, Mr. Castro, 44, advocated for a fairly progressive platform in his announcement speech.Here at On Politics, were trying to talk to all the 2020 candidates as they enter the race, and Mr. Castro agreed to be our first subject. We spoke late Sunday afternoon, shortly after he landed in San Juan, Puerto Rico, where he planed to speak to a group of political activists and tour a hurricane recovery zone. (As usual, our conversation has been condensed for clarity.)Lisa: Hi. Thanks for chatting with us. As you well know, youre one of the first of whats likely to be quite a number of Democrats running for president. How can you distinguish yourself?Castro: I have a track record of getting things done as mayor of San Antonio and as secretary of housing. I have a strong vision for the countrys future. And Ive lived a life that I believe lets me understand people all along the scale of experience in our country. I had a modest upbringing and I can understand people that are striving to reach their dreams. Ive also reached my dreams and can understand folks who have had a lot of success.Youre in Puerto Rico right now. Thats pretty far from Iowa. Why start your campaign there?I want everybody to understand that everybody counts in this country. The most basic tenet of government is protection. And this administration failed our fellow Americans in Puerto Rico by not protecting them after Hurricane Maria. Im going to highlight that, and then well let folks know that in the years to come everybody is going to count in this country, including the people of Puerto Rico.President Trump has said theres a massive crisis on the border. Do you agree?Not at all. The crisis that exists is a crisis of leadership. This president has failed. He promised all of us that if Americans could just be cruel enough to separate babies from their parents at the border, that it would deter more families from coming over there. Now weve seen that more families are coming over. So he has failed with his policies, and hes failed in trying to convince the American people that hes not to blame for this shutdown. And the best thing that he can do now is to set aside his political ploy of the wall.You may be the only Latino in a crowded race. How do you think that will impact the contest?Ive got to be myself, and Im confident that I can appeal to a broad cross-section of Americans. At the same time, of course, theres significance to the Latino community because I believe a lot of Latinos feel targeted right now by this administration. For me, personally, I can relate to many of todays immigrants because my grandmother that I grew up with came over from Mexico, and I grew up in San Antonio, just a few hours away from the border. So Ive seen the positive value that immigrants add to this country in a very direct way. And I know that these cities along the border are some of the safest cities in the United States.Any Democrats who runs will have to answer the question of how to challenge Mr. Trump. Whats your philosophy?The way I see it is that, above all else, people want to know what you stand for. Im going to give people a strong positive vision for our countrys future. Of course, Im going to point out where I differ with the president. But my first priority is to let you know, if you elect me, what Im going to do for you or for your family.Do you think a Democrat will end up running against Mr. Trump? Like, do you think hell still be in office next year? Thats probably the best question out there now. You know, its hard to tell whats going to happen. My hope is that these investigations will proceed thoroughly and Congress will act once the investigation is finished appropriately. So right now, Im prepared to face President Trump in November of 2020. If theres somebody else whos up for the Republicans, then Ill face them.Mr. Trump is known for giving nicknames to his opponents. What do you think yours will be? Who knows and who cares. You know, the thing about magic tricks is that even magic tricks get old. And his tricks are getting old.[Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.]____________________Talks between the White House and congressional Democrats to end the longest government shutdown in history remained stalled on Monday. Thats more bad news for government employees, who dont know when theyll get their next paycheck.Last week we spoke to Jlia Quintanilla, a contract janitor at the Department of Agriculture, who was worried about buying groceries. Today, were bringing you the story of T.S.A. agents Daniel and Jennifer Young. The couple met on the job at Huntsville Municipal Airport in Alabama, where theyve both worked for over a decade. They stagger their shifts, with Ms. Young leaving the house around 3:30 a.m., so they can care for their 5-year-old twin daughters.Deemed essential for national security, T.S.A. agents are required to work during the shutdown. But theyre not getting paid. Many live paycheck to paycheck, making an average salary of $35,000, according to officials at the American Federation of Government Employees.High numbers are calling in sick and resigning, a situation thats forced airports in Miami, Houston and Washington to close some screening lines. And on Sunday night, the T.S.A. confirmed that a passenger with a gun passed through a checkpoint in the Atlanta airport and flew to Tokyo. The agency denied any connection with the shutdown, but the incident sparked speculation.To ease some of the stress, David P. Pekoske, the T.S.A. administrator, announced that employees would receive a days pay if they worked Dec. 22 and that uniformed officers will get a $500 bonus on Tuesday.So far, the Youngs have been able to stretch their finances to cover their expenses. But if the shutdown continues into next month, the couple said they will have to make some really hard choices about which bills to pay.We had a screw in our tire, and I had to go and figure out how were going to pay for it to get fixed, said Mr. Young, 36, a Marine Corps veteran. That increases your stress level. You cant stop life when youre not getting paid. You still have to go to work.I cant pay my electric bill with an i.o.u. I cant pay my mortgage with an i.o.u., Mr. Young added. All my decisions are based on the fact that I have no idea when Im going to get paid or how Im paying for this. I will be pretty much living off credit cards in February.Kids sense a lot, said Ms. Young, 34, but I feel like they dont need to know. Its my job to take care of them. Its my job to provide for them. Even if I have to make tough choices. At least theres food in their bellies.Have you been personally affected by the shutdown? Tell us about it: OnPolitics@nytimes.com. Our inbox is always open!____________________ More than 30,000 Los Angeles public-school teachers began a long-planned strike on Monday, the first in three decades in the nations second-largest school district. Times reporters are following the story live here. Portraits of these women of the 116th Congress are a testament to what power looks like in 2019  and the possibilities of what it may look like in the years to come. A pretty fascinating photo spread on the women of the new Congress. Give up on inbox zero. In 2019, embrace inbox infinity. (Sorry if I dont reply to your message.)____________________The most controversial 2020 platform? Embracing carbs.Also, you know what will crush all these diets? Iowa. (In 2012, I tried fried butter drizzled with some kind of icing at the Iowa state fair. That was a real product being sold. And, dear reader, it wasnt half bad.)_____________________Megaphone illustration by Tim Lahan.Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world.Is there anything you think were missing? Anything you want to see more of? Wed love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Trip GabrielVoting rights and partisan gerrymandering, traditionally the preoccupation of wonky party strategists and good-government groups, have become major flash points in the debate about the integrity of American elections, signaling high stakes battles over voter suppression and politically engineered districts ahead of the 2020 presidential race.When Democrats take the majority in the House on Thursday, the first bill they plan to introduce will be broad legislation focusing on these issues. Early drafts of their proposals include automatic voter registration, public elections financing and ending gerrymandering by using independent commissions to draw voting districts.But action and anger go far beyond Congress. With voters increasingly aware of the powerful impact of gerrymandering and doubtful about the fairness of elections, voting issues have become central to politics in key states including Florida, Georgia, Michigan, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin.Questions about the health of American democracy are being raised in areas once thought to be wholly nonpartisan, as reflected in a court battle over whether the Trump administration is trying to use a question about citizenship on the 2020 census to undercount Democratic constituencies and limit their political clout.Voters in five states last year passed ballot questions shifting the power to draw political districts away from partisan lawmakers.In widely criticized lame-duck sessions of the Wisconsin and Michigan Legislatures, Republicans raced to strip powers from new Democratic governors, partly to protect their ability to gerrymander after the 2020 census.In Florida, voters approved a ballot initiative to restore voting rights for more than a million convicted felons, while in Georgia, questions about the legitimacy of the victory by the Republican governor, Brian Kemp, revolved around allegations that his office suppressed the votes of minorities in the state.At issue, many voting experts say, is a momentous clash between demographic changes that are slowly and powerfully reshaping the American electorate, making it younger, more diverse and more favorable for Democrats, and the entrenched power of Republican lawmakers, who see restrictions on voting and partisan redistricting as ways to hold on to political power.What theyre trying to do is construct a system where a minority of the voters can actually obtain majority power, said the former Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr., who sued states over voting rules during the Obama administration.Republicans say the influence of gerrymandering is overblown. They argue that Democrats fail to win seats in proportion to their popular votes because Democratic voters are clustered in urban districts. Republicans defend voting restrictions like ID laws as popular with majorities in both parties and needed to ensure confidence in elections.That concerns about gerrymandering have gone mainstream was underlined last month when President Barack Obama said he would join forces with a group Mr. Holder leads, the National Democratic Redistricting Committee. It was formed in 2017 in response to many state legislatures shifting sharply to the right on abortion, taxes, education and collective bargaining. Democrats contend those shifts were built on Republicans securing majorities at the state level through extreme gerrymandering after the 2010 census.The Republican State Leadership Committee, which helped secure many of those statehouse victories, argues the initial races were run in districts drawn by Democrats in previous decades. Matt Walter, the committees president, said some of the 2018 ballot measures to make redistricting less partisan were quietly backed by groups that seek to elect more Democrats.Cleverly worded ballot measures regarding redistricting are often nothing more than Democrat politics wrapped in some sort of illusion of citizen-participated good government, he said.Indeed, Democrats have also benefited from partisan maps in states like Maryland. Still, when Democrats in New Jersey recently sought to benefit from midterm gains and overhaul how legislative maps are drawn, Mr. Holder and other fair-voting groups opposed it. The proposal was scrapped.In the November elections, Democrats gained more House seats than they have in any midterm since Watergate, picking up 40 seats. But the gains might have been even bigger, election experts said, if Republican gerrymanders hadnt been drawn to withstand a blue wave.In Ohio, Republicans won 52 percent of the overall votes for Congress, but they retained 11 of the states 16 House seats.In North Carolina, Republicans won 50 percent of the popular congressional vote, but 9 out of 12 seats, not counting one still in dispute.Its the result of digitally diabolical gerrymandering, said Gov. Roy Cooper, a Democrat.North Carolina has been ground zero for what critics call aggressive Republican attacks on democracy, including a strict voter ID law, extreme partisan gerrymandering and a power grab during a lame-duck session of the legislature after Mr. Coopers election in 2016. Courts have overturned many of these efforts.The governor echoed critics of gerrymandering who say that putting lawmakers in safe districts leads to partisan polarization, because incumbents fear only a primary challenge from the extremes and lack any incentive to reach across the aisle.It has prevented progress in North Carolina on closing the health care gap, Mr. Cooper said. I think in Washington it has torpedoed common sense immigration reform. In June, the United States Supreme Court sidestepped the question of whether partisan gerrymandering was unconstitutional.Republican supermajorities in both of the states legislative chambers have overridden 22 of Mr. Coopers vetoes. In November, Democrats flipped enough seats in the General Assembly to limit Republicans to simple majorities, restoring the governors veto authority. Rather than wait for the new legislature to convene in January, Republicans met this month to override two of Mr. Coopers vetoes of voting laws.Phil Berger, the president of the State Senate, said critics accusing North Carolina Republicans of undermining democracy ignore the fact that the party won its majorities in 2010 using maps drawn by Democrats. The laws enacted since then, including voter ID, reflect the will of the majority, he said.The Democrats have a geographic problem, Mr. Berger said, referring to the clustering of Democratic voters in a handful of cities. Our view is we were returning North Carolina to more of the mainstream.If North Carolina was the template, Republican lawmakers in Wisconsin and Michigan both met in lame-duck sessions last year to strip powers away from incoming Democratic governors. Speaker Robin J. Vos of the Wisconsin State Assembly was candid about his motives for checking the incoming governor, Tony Evers, the former state superintendent of schools. We are going to have a very liberal governor who is going to enact policies that are in direct contrast to what many of us believe in, he said in early December.Wisconsins legislative maps, drawn in 2011, protected Republican supermajorities even after Gov. Scott Walker, a Republican, was defeated last year. Republican candidates for the State Assembly won just 46 percent of the popular vote, but they captured 64 percent of the chambers seats.Barry Burden, a political scientist at the University of Wisconsin, called the results a beautiful gerrymander because Republicans were protected even in a bad year for their party.In Michigan, however, most of the Republican pushback against the election results fizzled, either because bills died in the legislature or were vetoed by former Gov. Rick Snyder.According to the Brennan Center for Justice, 24 states, most Republican-led, have introduced restrictions that have made access to voting harder since 2010.Wendy R. Weiser, director of the Democracy Program at the Brennan Center, said there was a correlation between states that have restricted voting and those with high African-American turnout in 2008, the first year Mr. Obama was elected, as well as those that recorded large increases in Hispanic population in the 2010 census.The more a state saw an increase in political participation by African-Americans or an increase in the Latino population, the more likely theyd introduce new laws cutting back on voting access, she said.At the same time, many states have expanded voting access in recent years. Midterm voters in Nevada passed automatic registration for those receiving a drivers license, and Maryland authorized same-day registration at the polls. In New York, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo is calling for an overhaul of the states voting laws, considered among the most archaic in the country.At the opposite end of the spectrum, advocates of restrictions such as voter ID laws say they are needed to prevent fraud, despite multiple studies showing in-person fraud is extremely rare. A federal appeals court that struck down North Carolinas voter ID law in 2016 said it was drafted to target blacks with almost surgical precision.One of the Republicans defeated at the polls last year, Kris W. Kobach, lost a race for Kansas governor after being rebuked in federal court for insisting without evidence that noncitizen voting was widespread. Mr. Kobach had led the commission to look into President Trumps baseless claim that millions of undocumented immigrants voted in 2016. It disbanded without documenting his claim.Polls show Americans are increasingly concerned about the structure of elections. Only 51 percent believed that elections are fair and open in a July Ipsos poll. A Pew Research Center survey in October found wide partisan gaps over easing access to voting, with more Democrats than Republicans favoring the ability to register on Election Day, the restoration of felons voting rights and the automatic registration of all eligible voters.The issue has become a galvanizing one for Democratic candidates.Kamala Harris, the senator from California and a likely Democratic presidential candidate, tweeted last week: As states across the country are actively making it harder for Americans to vote, my Democratic colleagues are committed to strengthening access to the ballot box. Reinvigorating the Voting Rights Act, expanding early voting, and automatic registration are a place to start.In November, voters in Colorado, Missouri, Michigan and Utah approved changes to limit the role of partisanship in drawing congressional and legislative districts. Ohio passed a similar measure in May.But in Missouri, Gov. Michael L. Parson, a Republican, opposed the popular vote to turn over mapmaking to a nonpartisan state demographer, which could increase Democratic representation. The governor called for the measures repeal.Missouri reflects the way even popular elections often fail to settle voting-related disputes. In Florida, Democrats say Republicans are already looking for ways to avoid carrying out the initiative allowing people convicted of felonies to vote.Mr. Holder, who is among the Democrats considering a presidential run, said issues about voting and democracy are now central to American politics.Health care will clearly be the primary issue, he said. But I think if youre looking for a top-five issue, this one has broken through and will be something people will talk about and make their decision about who theyre going to vote for.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Simon RomeroLAREDO, Tex.  Priscilla Villarreal roams the streets of Laredo in an old Dodge pickup, scrambling to drug busts and murder scenes to bring her tales from the dark side of the southwest border to her many viewers.Rappers celebrate her scoops, proclaiming that she gets more love than our own citys mayor.I guess this makes me famous, huh? said Ms. Villarreal, 34, a 10th-grade dropout with a shaved head, an abundance of tattoos and an impassioned 119,000-strong following on Facebook. She is arguably the most influential journalist in Laredo, a border city of 260,000.Reporting in profanity-laced Spanglish and calling herself La Gordiloca, which roughly translates as the Crazy Fat Lady, Ms. Villarreals swift rise to prominence reflects how many people on the border now prefer to get their news  and just maybe, provides a glimpse at the future of journalism.All the notoriety amounts to a big shift for Ms. Villarreal. Just a few years ago she was working part time for a wrecking crew removing scrap from tractor-trailer crash sites. She was struggling with depression and post-traumatic stress after losing a baby born prematurely.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]But Ms. Villarreal embarked on a second career in muckraking in 2015. She has held local officials accountable  emerging victorious from a caustic legal battle with the Laredo Police Department over press freedom  and unearthed stories that were not being told.News on the Move, she calls it.Fans stop her on the street now to ask for autographs or selfies; Laredo eateries hire her to advertise their cuisine.Shes already something of a folk hero down there, said Daxton Stewart, a journalism professor specializing in media law at Texas Christian University in Fort Worth. Whats fascinating is that shes doing it the old-fashioned way, but with new technologies, by breaking news the authorities just dont want out there.Her recent reports include a horrific case of child abuse (Teenagers having babies!! she opined), the arrest of a school superintendent in Waco for possession of marijuana (Lets all do a petition for him in Laredo so he wont lose his job!!), drug raids and messy tractor-trailer accidents.Ms. Villarreal reports entirely on Facebook, often by live-streaming video on her page on her iPhone. Some follow her because of her fire-breathing reporting style, blending facts with chisme (gossip), but many in Laredo welcome her exposs on public corruption in a city whose abundant reports of graft are the target of an F.B.I. investigation.In February, for instance, she scooped the competition with a report about a former Laredo police investigator who was accused of taking gambling proceeds from raids on slot-machine casinos, then was allowed to resign when confronted with the findings.It took days for competitors to finally catch up and get the story about Anthony Carrillo Jr., 47, a 26-year veteran of the police force, when he was charged with tampering with evidence and abuse of his official capacity.Laredo police officers arrested Ms. Villarreal in December 2017 and charged her with two counts of misuse of official information, a third-degree felony. They said the charges were in connection with her reporting on the 2017 suicide of a Customs and Border Protection supervisor, whose name Ms. Villarreal published.For months before her arrest, the police department had also been hunting down the source of other leaks to Ms. Villarreal. They identified a police officer suspected of supplying the information  a woman who had worked on the force for 19 years  after searching the officers phone and finding hundreds of calls exchanged with Ms. Villarreal.The department placed the officer on suspension for 20 days and said in a statement that the case against Ms. Villarreal involved an obligation to the protection of a persons right to privacy as it relates to sensitive information.The district judge who examined the case promptly dismissed the charges against Ms. Villarreal, but the legal battle left her with mixed feelings about her work.The case made me even more well-known in Laredo, and more sources talk to me now, she said. But I remain scared, and who Im most scared of here arent the criminals or smugglers. Its the Laredo Police Department.Without editors to review her work, Ms. Villarreal reports almost entirely on her own. The only person who occasionally helps her monitor developments in Laredo is her mother, Maricela Rodrguez, 55, a former migrant worker who used to harvest sugar beets in Minnesota to support her family.I'm still learning how to say things like allegedly or its being said when Im describing breaking news, Ms. Villarreal said. Its a challenge, because I speak the language of the streets, and thats why people follow me.As newspapers in this part of Texas cut staff and resources for reporting, Ms. Villarreal is pressing ahead. She makes a small amount of money by promoting restaurants she frequents, though it is not enough to replace her 1998 Dodge Ram truck, which she bought used for $700 and affectionately calls her Blue Demon.For some reason, I find reporting therapeutic, said Ms. Villarreal, describing her severe depression after losing her baby a decade ago. She said she gained about 100 pounds after the loss, and tried to commit suicide by slitting her wrist.One part of the job that she dislikes, Ms. Villarreal said, is what she calls my haters. Some go on her Facebook page and mock her appearance or her demeanor. Others express disgust at all her swearing. Indeed, many of her reports would have trouble finding their way into the pages of a family newspaper.Every other word out of her mouth is obscene, said Abundio Rene Cant, a lawyer for a Laredo day care center that sued Ms. Villarreal for defamation after she reported that children at the site were being mistreated. Ms. Villarreal is appealing an initial ruling against her.This is a woman who has no respect for the rule of law, or due process, Mr. Cant said. I feel she is a danger to this community because she interferes with law enforcement.When Ms. Villarreal recently declared opposition to President Trump and his plans for a border wall, some conservatives in Laredo questioned whether she was an undocumented immigrant. (Ms. Villarreals grandparents are from Mexico and she was born in the United States.)Most days, she pays her detractors little heed. On a recent day, she prowled the city in the Blue Demon, cranking up the volume as she sang along with Tejano bands like Siggno.Stopping for lunch a short stroll from the border, at the La Posada Hotel, Ms. Villareal was quickly recognized. Some diners stopped to give her a hug and express best wishes about a new revelation: Ms. Villarreal is pregnant. Others lined up to take selfies with her.Im one of your top fans, Hilda Pea, 72, told Ms. Villarreal after wandering over to take a photograph with her. Ms. Pea, a retired financial services administrator, said that Ms. Villarreal won her over last year with her reporting on Juan David Ortiz, the Border Patrol agent accused of killing several women in Laredo. (According to investigators, he has confessed to four killings; he has pleaded not guilty.)With that serial killer on the loose, I wondered if I should get my gun, Ms. Pea said. But La Gordiloca made it clear when the situation was under control.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported bySo now the party abhors bigotry? How convenient.By Frank BruniOpinion ColumnistRepresentative Steve King, an Iowa Republican who couldnt be much clearer about his values if he went around in a conical white hood, said last week that white supremacist and white nationalist were inoffensive if not honorable terms, and now his fellow party members in Congress are coming down on him like a ton of bricks.I just dont get it. Why the upset?Senator Ted Cruz, the Texas Republican, told Chuck Todd on NBCs Meet the Press on Sunday that Kings remarks were stupid and hurtful and that Americans ought to be united, regardless of party, in saying white supremacism, white nationalism is hatred, it is bigotry, it is evil, it is wrong.Strong and righteous words. Hats off to Senator Cruz. But that indignation eluded him when he was running for president in 2016. Just before the Iowa caucuses, Cruz touted Kings endorsement of him. For good and fawning measure, he chose King as the national co-chairman of his campaign.It wasnt as if King, a member of the House since 2003, had been keeping his hateful values under wraps. By the time that Cruz came courting, King had insinuated that Barack Obama was some darling of radical Islamists, embraced the birther conspiracy, tweeted a cartoon of Obama wearing a turban and, most famously, said that for every child of an undocumented immigrant who goes on to academic glory, theres another 100 out there who weigh 130 pounds and theyve got calves the size of cantaloupes because theyre hauling 75 pounds of marijuana across the desert. That passed muster with Cruz, as it did with many other Republicans, because King was a king maker from a disproportionately influential state. Whats a little racism among political allies?On Monday Republican leaders in the House punished King by stripping him of his seats on both the Judiciary and Agriculture committees, and the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, said that King should find another line of work because he was unfit for Republican politics.But he was as fit as a fiddle in many if not most prominent Republicans eyes when he was locked in a tight re-election battle last fall and Republicans worried about losing his seat in Iowas Fourth District to a Democrat.King was in danger of defeat then in part because of a chilling crescendo in his racist associations and remarks over recent years. In July 2016 he said on MSNBC that white people had done more for civilization than any other subgroup of people. In March 2017 he tweeted that culture and demographics are our destiny and that Americans cant restore our civilization with somebody elses babies.In June 2018 he retweeted a Nazi sympathizers dire warning about the dangers of immigration in Europe, making clear that he felt that same alarm about America. Sheryl Gay Stolberg, who covers Congress for The Times, went looking for his Republican colleagues reactions and reported that representatives of the three top House Republicans  Paul Ryan, who was then speaker; Kevin McCarthy, the majority leader; and Steve Scalise, the whip  did not reply to emails seeking comment, nor did a representative of Senator Charles Grassley, an Iowa Republican.Iowas other Republican senator, Joni Ernst, ducked into an elevator as she was being asked about what King had tweeted, saying that she wasnt up to speed on the situation and shrugging her shoulders as the elevator doors closed, Stolberg wrote.Shrugging their shoulders: That sums it up. Republicans shrugged last autumn when King endorsed a white nationalist running for mayor of Toronto and also when he did an interview with a far-right Austrian website and said that America must defend Western civilization against immigrants or be subjugated by the people who are the enemies of faith.One of the few senior Republican officials who emphatically rebuked this behavior was Steve Stivers of Ohio, then the chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee. It could have been a pile-on moment when Republican leaders finally came out and denounced the guy, Jonathan Weisman, who edits The Timess congressional coverage, recalled. But that didnt happen. We were weeks before the election.Were now months after the election, and Republicans have already identified a primary challenger for King in 2020, someone who they believe can keep his seat in the partys hands. Hence the blossoming of conscience in McConnell, McCarthy and others. I lied before. I do get it. Pragmatism, expedience and the maintenance of power are the real monarchs of politics  and not just among Republicans.But theres even more than that behind the partys sudden turn against King. As with most everything else in Washington at this cursed juncture, this is largely about Donald Trump.Trumps own racist behavior and remarks  including, in the run-up to the midterm elections, his proud embrace of the term nationalist  have emboldened the Steve Kings of the world. Many Republicans recognize that. And despite all the pride that they have swallowed since Trumps ascent and all the principles that they have betrayed, many of them yearn to make a stand or at least a statement against white nationalism, for the sake of their partys long-term survival and, yes, for the country.They also want to say and do something right at a moment of so much wrong  wrong that they have abetted and must answer for. The government is shut down. The president fields understandable questions about whether hes a Russian agent. With his ignorance and arrogance, he seems to be hauling the country to the brink of a disastrous international crisis. He degrades his office daily. And most of them mutely watch. They quiver in the face of the presidents wrath.So theyre taking on King instead of taking on Trump. Its safer. Thats what this is really about: the sacrifice of one wretched bigot to atone for the indulgence of another; an opportunity for moral preening after so much moral surrender. This has less to do with courage than with convenience.Be glad for Kings exile. But dont be impressed by the Republicans who are ordering it.I invite you to sign up for my free weekly email newsletter. You can follow me on Twitter (@FrankBruni). Frank Bruni has been with The Times since 1995 and held a variety of jobs  including White House reporter, Rome bureau chief and chief restaurant critic  before becoming a columnist in 2011. He is the author of three best-selling books.  @FrankBruni  Facebook Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byIn Europe, socialism carries no red-scare potency. Its part of life, and Europe is not Venezuela.By Roger CohenOpinion ColumnistTwo of my children were born in socialist France. They survived. In fact, their births were great experiences: excellent medical care, wonderful postnatal follow-up, near-zero cost. My sons bris, in a Paris deserted through the August exodus, was another story, but I wont get into that.France has one of the worlds most elaborate social protection systems. The ratio of tax revenue to gross domestic product, at 46.2 percent, is the highest of all Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development countries. In the United States, that ratio is 27.1 percent. Look no further to grasp Franco-American differences.This French tax revenue is spent on programs  universal health care, lengthy paid maternity leave, unemployment benefits  designed to render society more cohesive and capitalism less cutthroat. Of the French Revolutions three-pronged cry  Libert, galit, Fraternit  the first has proved most problematic, freedom being but a short step, in the French view, from the Anglo-Saxon free-market jungle. Socialist presidents have governed France for half of the past 38 years.The country has paid a price for its social solidarity, particularly in high unemployment. But France has prospered. It has a vibrant private sector. It is a capitalist economy, among the worlds seven largest. Its socialism is no European exception. The Continent decided after World War II that cushioning capitalism was a price worth paying to avoid the social fragmentation that had fed violence.The parties that produced Europes welfare states had different names, but they all embraced the balances  of the free market and the public sector, of enterprise and equity, of profit and protection  that socialism or its cousin social democracy (as opposed to communism) stood for. Socialism, a word reborn, has none of the Red Scare potency in Europe that it carries in the United States. Its part of life. Its not Venezuelan misery.A 21st-century American election is about to be fought over socialism. Amazing! When the Berlin Wall fell beneath communisms weight three decades ago, capitalism unbridled strode forth over the rubble in search of global opportunity. Ideological struggle seemed over.But growing inequality and marginalization  byproducts of financial globalization  have thrust socialism center stage. Grace Blakeley, an economist and self-styled democratic socialist in London, told me, For most people today, socialism is freedom from a lousy warehouse job or working 80 hours a week in a job you detest for people you detest.Right. The charismatic voice of such sentiment in the United States is the Democratic congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the lightning rod of a new American politics.The definition of democratic socialism to me, again, is the fact that in a modern, moral and wealthy society, no American should be too poor to live, Ocasio-Cortez tells NBCs Chuck Todd. Like Britains leftist Labour Party leader, Jeremy Corbyn, she favors significant state intervention in the economy. Trump, unerring in his instinct for the jugular, declares, We believe in the American dream, not the socialist nightmare.Europe demonstrates, however, that socialism and the free market are compatible. The basic issue before the Democratic Party now is how far left to go. Bernie Sanders calls himself a socialist. Kamala Harris calls herself a progressive. John Hickenlooper, conciliator, says he can get stuff done.The notion that American elections are won in the center was buried by Trump. The energy in the Democratic Party lies in the progressive camp. It stems from anger at a skewed economy and millennial disgust at the elitist turn that cost the Democrats their working-class base and much of small-town America. This opened the way for Trump. My own inclinations are centrist, but not a centrism that cares more for Goldman Sachs than the opioid crisis. I dont see how the Democrats can eschew a new eras left-leaning energy and win.A word of caution: The United States was founded in contradistinction to, not as an extension of, Europe. Self-reliance is to America what fraternity is to France: part of its core. American space  so immense, so un-European  conjures in Americans a bristling independence of spirit that wants government out of their lives.Nations do not cast off their cultural essence. I dont think soaking the rich  Ocasio-Cortezs proposed 70 percent wealth tax  is going to get a Democrat to the Oval Office. Nor are the accusations of worker exploitation that chased Amazon and 25,000 jobs out of New York  a stupid waste.The dirty secret of European welfare states is that they tend to be business-friendly. As Monica Prasad, a sociology professor at Northwestern University has pointed out, Sweden has a lower corporate tax rate than the United States. The sweet spot for Democrats is getting business to buy in to progressive reform. America can be nudged in a French direction without losing its self-renewing essence.France is also home to the yellow-vest protests from the marginalized. So much for social cohesion, you might say. But theres a lesson. As James McAuley observed in The New York Review of Books, those vests reflect, above all, a material demand to be seen. Socialism is no silver bullet. The basic requirement of any Democratic candidate is to make the forgotten, the struggling and the invisible of American society feel visible again.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Roger Cohen has been a columnist for The Times since 2009. His columns appear Wednesday and Saturday. He joined The Times in 1990, and has served as a foreign correspondent and foreign editor.  @NYTimesCohen Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Robert PearWASHINGTON  A federal court issued a nationwide injunction on Monday that prevents the Trump administration from interfering with womens access to free birth control guaranteed under the Affordable Care Act.The decision, by Judge Wendy Beetlestone of the Federal District Court in Philadelphia, extends a losing streak for President Trump, who has repeatedly been set back in his efforts to allow employers to deny insurance coverage of contraceptives to which the employers object on religious or moral grounds.The rules were scheduled to take effect on Monday. The states of Pennsylvania and New Jersey challenged the rules before Judge Beetlestone, saying they would have to shoulder much of the burden of providing contraceptives to women who lost coverage under the Trump administrations rules.The states harm is not merely speculative; it is actual and imminent, Judge Beetlestone wrote. The final rules estimate that at least 70,500 women will lose coverage.The Trump administration argued that the states had not identified anyone who had lost coverage under the rules. Judge Beetlestone replied: There is no need to wait for the ax to fall before an injunction is appropriate, particularly where defendants have estimated that it is about to fall on thousands of women  and, as a corollary, on the states.Judge Beetlestone said the final rules were likely to have harsh consequences: numerous citizens losing contraceptive coverage, resulting in significant, direct and proprietary harm to the states in the form of increased use of state-funded contraceptive services, as well as increased costs associated with unintended pregnancies.Her decision was issued less than 24 hours after Judge Haywood S. Gilliam Jr. of the Federal District Court in Oakland, Calif., granted a request by 13 states and the District of Columbia to block the rules in their jurisdictions.Women who lose their entitlement to cost-free contraceptives are less likely to use an effective method, or any method at all  resulting in unintended pregnancies, Judge Gilliam said. Moreover, he said, many of the women are likely to turn to state programs to obtain no-cost contraceptives, at significant cost to the states.Josh Shapiro, the attorney general of Pennsylvania, who filed the lawsuit there, welcomed the decision by Judge Beetlestone.Todays ruling is a victory for the health and economic independence of women in Pennsylvania and across America, Mr. Shapiro, a Democrat, said. Women need contraception for their health because contraception is medicine, pure and simple.The attorney general of California, Xavier Becerra, also a Democrat, said: The law couldnt be clearer. Employers have no business interfering in womens health care decisions.President Barack Obama signed the Affordable Care Act in March 2010. One section of the law requires coverage of preventive health services and screenings for women. In August 2011, the Obama administration required employers and insurers to provide women with coverage at no cost for all methods of contraception approved by the Food and Drug Administration.For its part, the Trump administration said the contraceptive coverage mandate imposed a substantial burden on the exercise of religion by certain employers. The new rules, relaxing the mandate, fulfilled a campaign pledge by Mr. Trump, who said employers should not be bullied by the federal government because of their religious beliefs.Alex M. Azar II, the secretary of health and human services, was a defendant in both cases. Caitlin Oakley, a spokeswoman for Mr. Azar, reiterated the administrations position after the court decisions.No American should be forced to violate his or her own conscience in order to abide by the laws and regulations governing our health care system, Ms. Oakley said on Monday. The final rules affirm the Trump administrations commitment to upholding the freedoms afforded all Americans under our Constitution.The administration said employers who had moral objections to certain forms of birth control should also be exempt from the contraceptive coverage mandate.Congress and the courts have long recognized the importance of respecting moral convictions as well as religious beliefs, the Trump administration said, and as an example it cited the exemption from military service available to certain conscientious objectors.Moreover, it said an early version of the First Amendment, proposed by James Madison, protected not only freedom of religion, but also the full and equal rights of conscience.The rulings issued in Pennsylvania and California were preliminary injunctions. The judges in both cases said the states were likely to succeed on the merits of their claims and to suffer irreparable harm in the absence of a court order.Mark L. Rienzi, the president of the Becket Fund for Religious Liberty, said Monday that his organization would appeal the court decisions on behalf of its client the Little Sisters of the Poor, an order of Roman Catholic nuns who object to the contraceptive coverage mandate.We never wanted this fight, and we regret that after a long legal battle, it is still not over, Mother Loraine Marie Maguire of the Little Sisters said. We pray that we can once again devote our lives to our ministry of serving the elderly poor as we have for over 175 years.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported bynews analysisAfghan women used to be championed by almost everyone. Now theyre all but forgotten. By Susan ChiraMs. Chira is a senior correspondent and editor on gender issues for The New York Times.It was once a prominent and bipartisan cause: the liberation of Afghan women from the tyranny of the Taliban.These women were championed by an array of strange bedfellows: feminists like Eleanor Smeal, celebrities like Lily Tomlin and stalwarts of a conservative administration like Laura Bush and Dick Cheney.In the early days of the invasion, the world heard vivid stories of the changes the war had brought. Women could walk freely outside their houses and put on makeup; girls could go to school. It was a narrative that helped buoy public support for the fight in Afghanistan and deflect criticism about American empire.In November 2001, as American troops were fighting to drive Al Qaeda out of the country and topple the Taliban government, Mrs. Bush was given the megaphone of the presidents weekly radio address. Only the terrorists and the Taliban forbid education to women, she said. Only the terrorists and the Taliban threaten to pull out womens fingernails for wearing nail polish.Nearly two decades later, Afghan women are all but invisible to an American public thoroughly weary of the war. The future of Afghan women was not on the American agenda for its peace talks with the Taliban  they have been limited to core security issues of terrorism and American military presence. And there is agreement among many Democratic presidential candidates about leaving Afghanistan. Elizabeth Warren, Kamala Harris, Kirsten Gillibrand and Amy Klobuchar joined male presidential hopefuls in voting against a Senate rebuke of President Trumps plans for swift withdrawal from Afghanistan and Syria.In 2004, Nasrine Gross, an Afghan womens rights activist, was among those fighting to include a clause on womens equality in Afghanistans Constitution. Today she wonders whether all the support she thought Afghan women had from America was just a fig leaf, a way to make military intervention more palatable to the American public via photographs of girls going to school.How angry I am, how anguished I am, Ms. Gross said last month. She predicted an expansion of Taliban control and a return to past atrocities like stonings and whippings. Where are these American women?It may seem that American priorities have changed and that past concerns for all the girls who couldnt go to school simply dissipated as the war dragged on. But its also worth noting that years of well-publicized Taliban repression of women in Afghanistan did not prompt the American invasion; Sept. 11 did.Afghan women were never at the heart of American strategic interests, said Barnett Rubin, an Afghanistan expert at New York University who worked on Afghan issues in the Obama administration. Military goals came first.You do things for people in order to get a permissive environment to help your military operation, he said.Still, many in the administration did support the idea of expanding rights for women, and the United States, along with European governments and nongovernmental organizations, allocated substantial aid toward that end. The aid has made a real difference. In the 17 years since the invasion, education for girls has spread; today they make up about 40 percent of the countrys elementary school students and about 35 percent of its middle and high school students, according to the Feminist Majority Foundation, a Virginia-based organization led by Ms. Smeal that has been an advocate for Afghan women for more than two decades. Women now make up nearly a third of civil servants, according to the foundation, and have been encouraged to become police officers and judges. And a network of womens shelters has been established across the country.Yet very conservative attitudes prevail in many areas outside Kabul, the capital, and women who enter mens worlds like law enforcement have often been attacked or threatened.In the current peace talks, the United States wants a Taliban promise not to shelter terrorist groups like Al Qaeda in exchange for a military withdrawal. It is leaving other issues like womens rights to separate talks, not yet even agreed to, between the Taliban and the Afghan government, which pledges to preserve womens progress.Signals from the Taliban have been discouraging. In interviews, diplomats speak about a group that seems emboldened. Mariam Safi, director of the Organization for Policy Research and Development Studies in Kabul, said she was told that during talks in Moscow with Afghans who are not part of the government, the Taliban said women could go to school and hold political office but not become judges or president. They regard the Constitution, with its commitment to womens equality, as illegitimate and imposed by America.Afghan women are speaking up, at home and abroad. They are insisting they be at the negotiating table during future talks; more than 700 gathered recently to urge that the peace they desire not come at their expense.The talks are behind closed doors  its not transparent, said Sima Samar, chairwoman of the Afghanistan Independent Human Rights Commission. Weve heard nothing about the discussion of women. The Taliban keep saying we will give women rights based in Shariah. Women here are very, very worried and I think we are all united in saying we are not going back.Both Ms. Smeal and Mrs. Bush have continued to speak out about Afghan women over the years, but Ms. Smeal said the absence of womens rights from the talks agenda so far has infused a new sense of urgency. Now were all waking up to the problem, she said.Ms. Smeal said she was talking to members of Congress, bringing up the issue at the United Nations and trying to reignite bipartisan alarm, including signing a letter objecting to the withdrawal plans along with a scholar from the conservative American Enterprise Institute. Senator Jeanne Shaheen, Democrat of New Hampshire and the only woman on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, was among several Democrats who wrote a letter urging that the Trump administration ensure that womens rights are protected during withdrawal negotiations.But neither the public nor the Trump administration seems to be listening  at least not so far.Ms. Safi and Dr. Rubin pointed out that Afghan women have been victims of 40 years of war  killed during Taliban attacks and American and Afghan troops night raids or bombings.Dr. Rubin believes a political settlement between the Afghan government and the Taliban is the only answer because the Taliban are not going away; he argues for a gradual withdrawal to ensure the Taliban live up to their commitments. Dont think the U.S. is going to protect you from your own fellow Afghans forever, he said. The best fight for womens rights is not to wage wars that cost hundreds of billions of dollars. Its not like war is good for women.Afghan women do, indeed, long for peace. But the Talibans track record leaves them wary, and they fear that the United States, like other great powers, sided with them only when convenient and is all too ready to abandon them when it is not.Women were pawns in the game in 2001, Ms. Safi said. And now they are again.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.An earlier version of a picture caption with this article misstated which parties to the war in Afghanistan are now having peace talks. They are the Taliban and the United States, not the Taliban and the Afghan government.Susan Chira is a senior correspondent and editor covering gender issues, and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize in 2018 for public service for reporting on workplace sexual harassment issues.  @SusanChira Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byGood Friday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today._____________________ President Trump said that the United States should recognize Israels authority over the Golan Heights, one of the worlds most disputed territories, reversing decades-long American policy. The United Nations has rejected Israels occupation of the Golan Heights, which was seized from Syria in 1967. Joe Biden, aware that concerns about his age could weigh on his candidacy if he runs for the White House, is considering two ideas to reassure voters: announcing a running mate well before the nomination, or pledging to serve only one term. The man in charge of Saudi Arabias ruthless campaign to stifle dissent used a secretive Israeli company offering technology developed by former intelligence operatives to spy on people. Read the investigation here, and our takeaways here. At 23, Elizabeth Pipko is a onetime figure skater, part-time poet and former Trump campaign aide. She has also become the face of Jexodus  a fledging effort by Republicans to woo Jews away from the Democratic Party. The president signed an executive order directing federal agencies to link grants and certain other higher-education funding to how colleges and universities enforce the right to free inquiry on their campuses. This is a cause clbre for conservatives, who argue their voices have been silenced. Less than a month after a summit meeting between Mr. Trump and the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, the Trump administration imposed new sanctions on two Chinese shipping companies for helping North Korea evade existing international ones. The chairman of the House Oversight and Reform Committee revealed information that he said showed Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner used private messaging services for official White House business in a way that may have violated federal records laws. Senate Republicans are as perplexed as they are perturbed about Mr. Trumps sustained attack on their colleague, John McCain. But many are refraining from weighing in on presidents comments, wary of antagonizing Mr. Trump and conservative voters. Mr. Trumps ability to get his revised North American trade agreement through Congress may hinge on a little-noticed provision governing intellectual property protections for new pharmaceutical products. The provision undermine Democrats push to make American health care more affordable. The president wants Robert Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots, to be part of the teams Super Bowl celebration at the White House, despite his recent arrest on charges of soliciting prostitution at a spa once owned by a woman accused of selling access to Mr. Trump._____________________Todays On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grulln Paz in New York.Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Is there anything you think were missing? Anything you want to see more of? Wed love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byDont let the deficit scolds scare you into thinking small.By Paul KrugmanOpinion ColumnistMuch of Donald Trumps State of the Union address was devoted to describing the menaces he claims face America  mainly the menace of scary brown people, but also the menace of socialism. And there has been a lot of discussion in the news media of what he said on those topics.There has, however, been little coverage of one of the most revealing aspects of the SOTU: what Trump said about the menace of Americas historically large government debt.But wait, you may object  he didnt say anything about debt. Indeed he didnt  not one word. But thats what was so revealing.After all, Republicans spent the entire Obama administration inveighing constantly about the dangers of debt, warning that America faced a looming crisis unless deficits were drastically reduced. Now that theyre in power, however  and with the deficit surging thanks to a huge tax cut for corporations and the rich  theyve totally dropped the subject.According to ABC News, Mick Mulvaney, Trumps acting chief of staff, explained to G.O.P. members of Congress why debt wouldnt get a single mention in the SOTU: Nobody cares.And you know, hes kind of right. Its not just Republicans who suddenly seemed to stop caring about debt. For years deficit scolds dominated discourse inside the Beltway; much of the news media treated the urgency of fiscal austerity as an unquestioned fact, abandoning the usual rules of reportorial neutrality and plunging into outright advocacy. Yet since Trumps election those voices have become oddly muted.What weve just seen confirmed, then, is what some of us were trying to tell you from the beginning: All that wailing about debt was hypocritical. Republicans never actually cared about debt; they just pretended to be deficit hawks as a way to hamstring President Barack Obamas agenda. And many centrists have turned out to have a double standard, reserving passionate concern about debt for times when Democrats hold power.But while the about-face on debt has, as I said, been deeply revealing, there are still two big questions. First, how much should we care about debt? Second, will a double standard continue to prevail? That is, will the deficit scolds suddenly get vocal again if and when Democrats regain power?On the first question: One surprising thing about the debt obsession that peaked around 2011 is that it never had much basis in economic analysis. On the contrary, everything we know about fiscal policy says that its a mistake to focus on deficit reduction when unemployment is high and interest rates are low, as they were when the fiscal scolds were at their loudest.The case for worrying about debt is stronger now, given low unemployment. But interest rates are still very low by historical standards  less than 1 percent after adjusting for inflation. This is so low that we neednt fear that debt will snowball, with interest payments blowing up the deficit. It also suggests that were suffering from chronic weakness in private investment demand (which, by the way, the 2017 tax cut doesnt seem to have boosted at all).So in the past few months a number of prominent economists  including the former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund and top economists from the Obama administration  have published analyses saying that even now, with unemployment quite low, debt is much less of a problem than previously thought.Its still a bad idea to run up debt for no good reason  say, to provide tax breaks that corporations just use to buy back their own stock, which is, of course, what the G.O.P. did. But borrowing at ultralow interest rates to pay for investments in the future  infrastructure, of course, but also things like nutrition and health care for the young, who are the workers of tomorrow  is very defensible.Which brings us to the question of double standards.You dont have to agree with everything in proposals for a Green New Deal to acknowledge that its very much an investment program, not a mere giveaway. So it has been very dismaying to see how much commentary on these proposals either demands an immediate, detailed explanation of how Democrats would pay for their ideas, or dismisses the whole thing as impractical. Was there the same pushback against Republican tax cuts? No.Look, weve seen this over and over again  three times since 1980. Republicans rail against budget deficits when theyre out of power, then drop all their concerns and send the deficit soaring once they are in a position to cut taxes. Then when its the Democrats turn, theyre expected to clean up the Republicans red ink rather than address their own priorities. Enough already.Im not saying that Democrats should completely ignore the fiscal implications of their actions. Really big spending plans, especially if they dont clearly involve investment  for example, a major expansion of federal health spending  will have to be paid for with new taxes. But if and when Democrats are in a position to make policy, they should be ambitious, and not let the deficit scolds scare them into thinking small.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.  @PaulKrugman Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe substance, including calls for unity and a focus on immigration, might sound familiar. But after Democratic gains in the midterm elections, the political backdrop to the speech will be very different from last years.By Michael TackettPresident Trump will deliver his second State of the Union address at 9 p.m. Eastern Time Tuesday night. The speech was originally scheduled for last month, but was postponed because of the partial government shutdown, prompted by Mr. Trumps demand that Congress pay for a wall along the southern border with Mexico.Presidents use the address, in a favorable setting and commanding national attention, to gain both political and policy advantage. This year, for example, Mr. Trump is expected to announce a plan to stop transmission of H.I.V. by 2030.White House officials said that the president will also make calls for unity in a polarized age. If that has a familiar ring, it is because he made similar exhortations last year.[Follow our Live Briefing for updates on the 2019 State of the Union.]But his audience in the House chamber will be markedly different, starting with Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who will be sitting over his shoulder, and dozens of newly elected Democratic women, many of whom have been deeply critical of the president, who will be seated in front of him. The Democratic response will be delivered by Stacey Abrams, who ran unsuccessfully for governor in Georgia last year but emerged as one of the partys rising stars.The chamber will also be flush with declared and potential 2020 Democratic presidential candidates, including Senators Kamala Harris, Elizabeth Warren, Cory Booker and Kirsten Gillibrand. Whether or not Mr. Trump mentions the 2020 campaign, it will be an important backdrop for his address.It will be aired by all major broadcast and cable networks and streamed live at www.nytimes.com, where reporters will also be providing real-time fact-checking and analysis.On Tuesday morning, the presidents top surrogates received a memo from the White House with talking points to emphasize as they try to shape opinion even before the speech starts. The memo said a theme of the address will be Choosing Greatness and adds that the president will appeal to Americans aspirations. The memo also said Mr. Trump will try to offer a policy agenda that can appeal to both parties, an approach that so far has eluded him during his time in office. Immigration policy dominated the presidents agenda during his second year in office, and most likely will again during the third. Mr. Trump has consistently tried to make the case that there is a crisis  of crime, drugs and human trafficking  at the border with Mexico, an emergency that can be dealt with only by building a border wall.The president is also likely to call for a legislative solution to address the so-called Dreamers, younger immigrants who were brought to the United States illegally as children and have no criminal record. This is one area of possible cooperation with Democrats, but there are significant disagreements about details.Mr. Trump is not expected to veer from his demands for billions of dollars in funding for border security, including some kind of barrier. Congressional negotiators from both parties are trying to hammer out a deal on border security, but Democrats have been adamant that they will not agree to money for Mr. Trumps wall, and the president has been pessimistic about the chances of Capitol Hill coming up with an agreement that meets his approval.Still, he is not expected to use the address on Tuesday to declare a national emergency, which potentially would enable him to construct additional barriers along the border using presidential authority.White House officials said the president is also likely to talk about abortion and the fundamental importance and respect for human life. Mr. Trumps evangelical supporters, who fervently oppose abortion, have been the bulwark of his political base.He might also talk about Chinas program of forced abortion and sterilization, and perhaps even efforts in the United States to ease some abortion restrictions, such as a contentious amendment regarding late-term abortions being considered by the legislature in Virginia.Mr. Trump has called for a substantial withdrawal of troops from the war in Afghanistan, where the United States military has been fighting for more than 17 years. But he has encountered uncharacteristic pushback from Republicans about taking troops out of Syria. In recent days, he has talked about keeping American troops in Iraq to maintain pressure on Iran, despite political opposition to the idea in Baghdad. He has also faced resistance from military leaders about drawing down troops too rapidly in Afghanistan, so the speech offers an opportunity to lay out his thinking to the American people.The president, as he did last year, will almost certainly make an appeal for an infrastructure program, and is likely to emphasize its effect in rural America, the home of his political base. Programs to repair roads and bridges have strong bipartisan appeal, but so far, Republicans and Democrats have not found a middle ground. Presidents typically use the State of the Union speech to take credit for successes in the previous year. Mr. Trump will most likely talk about a robust economy, a low rate of unemployment, a tax cut he credits with spurring growth and his push to roll back federal regulations on business. Many economists say that the tax cut provided only a temporary stimulus, but few can argue with the continued growth in jobs, now at 100 straight months, or the unemployment rate, which was 4 percent in January.Mr. Trump is also likely to say that the new trade agreements with Canada and Mexico, combined with his aggressive use of tariffs against China, have made the trade environment far more favorable to the United States. Congress has yet to ratify the trade pact with Canada and Mexico.Last year, Mr. Trump gave a speech in largely measured tones and sounded a call for common purpose. Tonight, I call upon all of us to set aside our differences, to seek common ground and to summon the unity we need to deliver for the people, he said, adding, So let us begin tonight by recognizing that the state of our union is strong because our people are strong. And together, we are building a safe, strong and proud America.But his presidency became no less polarizing in the subsequent 12 months, and with the 2020 campaign getting underway and the special counsels investigation into Russian interference in the last election still incomplete, the chances that partisanship will ebb in the next year do not seem especially promising.The Constitution says that the president shall from time to time give Congress information on the State of the Union. From the days of Thomas Jefferson until Woodrow Wilson, presidents gave the address in writing. Wilson changed that tradition by delivering it in person, and it has evolved into a largely political evening. Members of the presidents party cheer lustily, while members of the other party often sit stone-faced. This has led some  like Mitch Daniels, the president of Purdue University and a former two-term Republican governor of Indiana, and Steve Israel, a former Democratic congressman from New York  to say that the State of the Union speech has outlived its usefulness and should be discontinued.Last years speech clocked in at 80 minutes, the longest since President Bill Clintons in 2000.Michael Tackett covers national politics. He has written about politics for more than 30 years and has covered six presidential elections.  @tackettdc Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported bywith interestBy Charlotte CowlesWant this column in your inbox? Sign up here.Hi there. Did you see the lunar eclipse last week? I didnt, either. (I thought about it, and then fell asleep.) Of course, of all the eclipses to miss, this one was eventful: A mysterious flash of light appeared on the side of the moon right around midnight. Astronomers believe that it was a meteoroid that crashed and burned, but we may never know.Scientists also reported last week that a planet the size of Mars collided with Earth about 4.4 billion years ago, scattering a shower of rocks that coalesced into the moon. These celestial events put this dark, endless-seeming January into perspective, dont they? Or theyre just one more reminder that NASA has been mostly closed for weeks, another casualty of the government shutdown. You can catch up on the latest shutdown (and reopening) news below, plus the biggest stories in business and tech, in much less time than 4.4 billion years (more like four minutes). Then, get back to enjoying this particular rotation of the Earth.JAN. 20-26President Trump made a surprise announcement on Friday that he had agreed to reopen the federal government for three weeks. During that time, Congress can pass spending bills to temporarily restore normal operations at a number of federal agencies and resume paying the 800,000 workers who have been furloughed or forced to work for free for 35 days. (Theyll also receive back wages.) Mr. Trump will continue to negotiate for more funding to secure the nations southwestern border, although he appears to be retreating from his previous demands for a $5 billion wall. The cease-fire came after a backlash against Commerce Secretary Wilbur Rosss suggestion that furloughed workers take out personal loans to cover their bills. There were also widespread flight delays on Friday because of a shortage of air traffic controllers, who called in sick after more than a month of working without pay.You know who doesnt have paycheck woes? The business tycoons who took a record number of private jets (about 1,500 in total) to the annual World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, last week. On the ground, the hot topic was tech. Several world leaders called for international regulations in the technology sector, particularly over the collection and use of our personal data. But could that really happen? A recent report showed that Apple, Amazon, Facebook, Google and Microsoft spent a combined $64 million in 2018 to lobby for measures that would keep regulators at bay. And they arent the only ones working behind the scenes. Many business elites claimed to be worried about how artificial intelligence and automation could replace peoples jobs, but privately theyre investing in it.The latest in the battle against fake news (and that annoying friend who sends spam to your social media every day): WhatsApp, the Facebook-owned messaging application with 1.5 billion users, has capped the number of times someone can forward a message at five. The limit is intended to curb the rapid dissemination of false information like doctored photos, manipulated recordings and straight-up lies. Previously, a WhatsApp user could forward a message to 20 individuals or groups, allowing rumors to spread faster than anyone could monitor. The company has been working to resolve these issues since July, when misinformation on social media led to deadly mob violence in India. JAN. 27-FEB. 2China and the United States will face off in a round of high-pressure trade talks in Washington this week, and itll be a nail-biter: Both economic superpowers want to end what has become a destructive trade war, but thats about it for their common ground. The Trump administration is pushing for China to significantly open its markets to foreign investment and stop forcing American companies to hand over trade secrets. But those may be nonstarters. If no agreement is reached by March 2, Mr. Trump has said, the United States will raise tariffs on $200 billion in Chinese goods. Thatd be a lose-lose for Chinese and American businesses and consumers. Meet Venezuelas dueling presidents: the incumbent, Nicols Maduro, who claimed office after a disputed election, and the 35-year-old opposition leader, Juan Guaid, who appointed himself last week to oversee a transitional government. Mr. Guaid was quickly backed by the United States, which offered $20 billion to aid his efforts. The sentiment was echoed by other countries in the region that view Mr. Maduro as an illegitimate dictator who has driven the oil-rich and formerly prosperous country into an era of crisis. But he wont go quietly. Russia is a major stakeholder in Venezuelas energy sector and has funneled more than $10 billion to Mr. Maduros government (and its military). Theres much to gain from being on the winning side of this clash  fossil fuels, in particular. Another week, another clobbering for Prime Minister Theresa May and her plan for Britains withdrawal from the European Union. Next up: Parliament will vote on amendments to Mrs. Mays Brexit deal on Tuesday. Shes proposing to renegotiate with the European Union over the plans major sticking points, namely customs checks on the Irish border. (The European Union wants them, and Britain doesnt.) European Union leaders will debate the deal the next day, but dont expect much progress. What you can anticipate, though, is that more companies will pull out of Britain, worried that a no-deal Brexit could create a giant financial mess. The Postal Service is raising the price of a first-class Forever stamp to 55 cents from 50, effective this week. Its the largest postage price increase ever. Whats not rising? Interest rates. Theyre likely to stay right where they are when the Fed meets to discuss them this week. In other news, more companies are using cube satellites to spy on their competitors from space. Wave hello.$238 million: The record selling price of a penthouse apartment overlooking Central Park, purchased by a hedge fund billionaire last week. Its the most anyone has ever paid for a home in the United States, breaking the previous record of $137 million for an East Hampton house that sold in 2014.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Robert PearWASHINGTON  Even before Democrats finish drafting bills to create a single-payer health care system, the health care and insurance industries have assembled a small army of lobbyists to kill Medicare for all, an idea that is mocked publicly but is being greeted privately with increasing seriousness.Doctors, hospitals, drug companies and insurers are intent on strangling Medicare for all before it advances from an aspirational slogan to a legislative agenda item. They have hired a top lieutenant in Hillary Clintons 2016 presidential campaign to spearhead the effort. And their tactics will show Democrats what they are up against as the party drifts to the left on health care.They also demonstrate how entrenched the Democrats last big health care victory, the Affordable Care Act, has become in the nations health care system.The lobbyists message is simple: The Affordable Care Act is working reasonably well and should be improved, not repealed by Republicans or replaced by Democrats with a big new public program. More than 155 million Americans have employer-sponsored health coverage. They like it, by and large, and should be allowed to keep it.transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester, Andy Mills, Clare Toeniskoetter and Jessica Cheung, and edited by Paige CowettAs the idea gains traction in mainstream circles, we look at its roots in progressive American politics.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, Im Michael Barbaro. This is The Daily. Today:archived recording 1I think Medicare for all is the right solution.archived recording 2I support Medicare for all.archived recording 3Oh, I believe that we need Medicare for all.archived recording 4We need to make sure that every American is able to get health care.archived recording 5We need to have Medicare for all.archived recording 6I believe we should have Medicare for all.archived recording 7This country will pass a Medicare for all single-payer health care system. [CROWD CHEERING]michael barbaroMedicare for all. Its Wednesday, March 13. Margot, the 2020 Democratic primary, which is now officially underway, is very much starting to feel like the Medicare for all primary. Where does this idea, Medicare for all, come from?margot sanger-katzWell, I think it actually makes sense to go all the way back and think about the origin of Medicare. [MUSIC] This is actually an idea that has been kicking around in progressive politics for a very long time. It had a brief moment in the Progressive Era in 1910.michael barbaroMargot Sanger-Katz covers health care policy for The Times.margot sanger-katzThen, I think the next serious moment was actually in the New Deal.archived recording (franklin d. roosevelt)Two months ago, as you know, we were facing serious problems. The country was dying by inches.margot sanger-katzAnd if you think about what the F.D.R. administration was trying to do, they were trying to build a sort of basic public social safety net for people, to protect them and prevent them from falling through the cracks.archived recording (franklin d. roosevelt)First, we are giving the opportunity of employment to a quarter of a million of the unemployed.margot sanger-katzAnd health care was something that they considered including in the package of reforms at that time when they made social security and a lot of these other programs, but it was too controversial, and it actually dropped out of that proposal.michael barbaroAnd why would it be controversial in the New Deal period, when it seems like the idea of government taking care of people is very much in vogue?margot sanger-katzI think the main reason why health care at that time was so controversial is because doctors were really against it. Doctors were these small business owners, people paid them directly for medical care, and they really didnt want the government getting involved in their business and, perhaps, making it harder for them to make a living.archived recording (harry truman)We are rightly proud of the high standards of medical care we know how to provide in the United States.margot sanger-katzSo the next American president to really make a go at this was Harry Truman archived recording (harry truman)The fact is, however, that most of our people cannot afford to pay for the care they need.margot sanger-katz who wanted to create a universal health care program.archived recording (harry truman)Our ultimate aim must be a comprehensive insurance system to protect all our people equally against insecurity and ill health.margot sanger-katzAnd again, he really was stopped.archived recording (john f. kennedy)I believe the epic in which were engaged is worth the time and effort of all of us.margot sanger-katzThen, J.F.K. made a big move to try to expand government health insurance, at least for the elderly.archived recording (john f. kennedy)This is a campaign to help people meet their responsibility.margot sanger-katzThere was a view that while health insurance was starting to become available as a way for working people to protect themselves, that once you got old and you didnt have a job that came with insurance and you started to get sick  that no one wanted to sell you insurance. And so he proposed this idea of having a health care program that would be financed by payroll taxes like social security, but he couldnt get it through.archived recording (lyndon johnson)No longer will older Americans be denied the healing miracle of modern medicine.margot sanger-katzIt was only when Lyndon Johnson became president afterwards and after the Democrats took big majorities of Congress archived recording (lyndon johnson)No longer will illness crush and destroy the savings that they have so carefully put away over a lifetime.margot sanger-katz that they were finally able to pass legislation that established the program that we now call Medicare.archived recording (lyndon johnson)And no longer will this nation refuse the hand of justice to those who have given a lifetime of service and wisdom and labor to the progress of this progressive country. [MUSIC]michael barbaroAnd what was Medicare at this moment when President Johnson signs it into law?margot sanger-katzThe idea was that everyone, once they turned age 65, if they had worked and paid payroll taxes, would be able to have government health insurance. They would have access to insurance that would pay for their hospital care and further visits to doctors.michael barbaroSo it took four presidents to pass a version of government-run health care. And even then, it is afforded to a narrow group of Americans.margot sanger-katzThats right. Around the same time that Congress passed Medicare, they also created a program called Medicaid that served the very poor in America. But essentially, there was a huge group of Americans in the middle who were left out of both programs.michael barbaroAnd why is that, Margot? Why is this idea during this period of nationalized medicine, government-run health care  why is it being limited to such small groups of Americans?margot sanger-katzI think the idea has always been pretty politically controversial. There are a couple of different threads of it. One is that industry doesnt like it. So doctors are the kind of most vocal group in this period. But over time, we also have hospitals, and drug companies, and other parts of the health care industry that are wary of the government getting involved and maybe taking their dollars away from them. I think also, especially in this period, there is a real resistance to socialism and this idea that its not American to have the government providing these basic benefits, that the free market should work to do it instead.michael barbaroBut what about the people who are being covered by government-run health care programs like Medicare? Do they like it? Is it working well for them in this period  the 1960s, the 1970s?margot sanger-katzMedicare is a uniquely popular government program. People really love it. It provides them with a lot of financial security. People pay taxes into the program, so they feel like its an earned benefit. Its something that they deserve. But meanwhile, everyone else is in a health insurance program that is getting a little bit more rickety. There are some people who get really great insurance through their work, but there are a lot of other people who are sort of falling through the cracks  if theyre between jobs, if they work for a company that doesnt provide insurance. The system for people in Medicare is that everyone gets it and they all get the same thing. The system for the rest of us is, it really depends on who you are, and who you work for, and what your financial situation is.archived recording (ted kennedy)Ive been able to receive it for myself and for my family. Just like all of us who are on the tip of the iceberg, way up high in the health care services.margot sanger-katzAnd because of that, there are a bunch of proposals over the years to try to reconsider a more national health care system.archived recording (ted kennedy)But I want every delegate at this convention to understand that as long as Im a vote margot sanger-katzTed Kennedy has a proposal in 1970.archived recording (ted kennedy) and as long as I have a voice in the United States Senate, its going to be for that Democratic platform plank that provides decent quality health care. [CROWD CHEERING] North and south, east and west.margot sanger-katzIn the 1990s, the Clintons have an idea to try to achieve universal health care. But largely for the same reasons that we had trouble with this before  concerns about socialism, industry opposition  those proposals essentially get batted down.michael barbaroAnd so what happens next?archived recording (barack obama)Six months ago today, a big part of the Affordable Care Act kicked in.margot sanger-katzSo I would say the next big thing that happens in this timeline is that we get the Affordable Care Act in 2010.archived recording (barack obama)And millions of Americans finally had the same chance to buy quality, affordable health care, and the peace of mind that comes with it, as everybody else.margot sanger-katzThere is a brief discussion among Democrats at that time of trying to do a single-payer system, a more universal system, where everyone gets something like Medicare, but that really, even at that time, is very much a fringe view among Democrats. The consensus idea that President Obama and the Democrats in Congress want to do is something that sort of expands on our current system, where you still have a lot of different private insurers. People have a lot of choice.archived recording (barack obama)7.1 million Americans have now signed up for private insurance plans through these marketplaces. [CROWD CHEERING]margot sanger-katzAnd on the socialism side, even though this was largely a private market program, it still was susceptible to those kinds of criticisms. And we heard Republicans talking about it as a government takeover, talking about as a socialist plot.archived recordingThis has to be ripped out by its roots. This is government taking over the entire health insurance industry.margot sanger-katzBut what it tries to do is kind of patch up the holes in the existing system. And one of the ways that it does that is by vastly expanding Medicaid, that program we talked about for poor people. A lot more people get coverage through Medicaid, and then the government helps people who dont get insurance through work with financial subsidies that allow them to buy their own insurance.michael barbaroSo with the Affordable Care Act, once again, the concept of government-run health care is proposed and ultimately tossed aside.margot sanger-katzYes and no. I think you have to see the Affordable Care Act as a sort of compromise. As a moderate proposal that expands some government health care, expands some private insurance, keeps a lot of what already exists and doesnt take things away from people. But I also think that it did change Americans expectations about what the role for government was in health care, and also what kind of health care they were entitled to. So, you know, were moving closer to the idea that everyone should be able to have health insurance, even if theyre poor, even if they dont get insurance through work. And there are certain guarantees in the Affordable Care Act, like the guarantee that people who have pre-existing health conditions should be able to buy insurance michael barbaroRight.margot sanger-katz that really didnt exist before.michael barbaroSo even though with the Affordable Care Act we didnt end up with government-run health care, we end up with more government in our health care, which it sounds like is beginning to change peoples perception of what the governments role should be when it comes to medicine.margot sanger-katzExactly.archived recording 1Who are you guys here to see?archived recording 2Bernie!archived recording 1Who feels the Bern? [CROWD CHEERING] [MUSIC]margot sanger-katzAnd I think this lays the groundwork for Bernie Sanders when he comes forward with a proposal in 2016 that he calls Medicare for all.archived recording (bernie sanders)We must fight to make sure that we pass a Medicare for all health care system. [CROWD CHEERING]margot sanger-katzMedicare for all builds on the idea that everyone should have access to affordable health insurance, but it kind of turbo-charges that idea. Medicare for all says everyone gets the same health care.michael barbaroHm.archived recording (bernie sanders)I happen to believe  and I know not everybody agrees with me  I believe that health care is a right of all people.archived recordingExcuse me, where did that right come from, in your mind?archived recording (bernie sanders)Being a human being. Being a human being.margot sanger-katzSenator Sanderss idea is that everyone in America would have access to health insurance thats provided by the government that covers a wide array of medical services, and for which they do not have to pay any money when they go to the doctor.michael barbaroWow. And whats the reaction to Sanderss proposal?margot sanger-katzIt has a really mixed perception. So I think that it really speaks to some people who respond to the moral case that hes making and to people who have really felt left behind by our current system, who are struggling with high health care costs or fighting with their insurance companies. So I think it really galvanized his campaign. Its a central theme. Obviously, he really outperforms everyones expectations in the Democratic primary.michael barbaroMm-hmm.margot sanger-katzAt the same time, I think that the kinds of people who were uncomfortable with the Affordable Care Act, who were uncomfortable with some of these more universal health care systems in the past think its sort of a laughable idea. Its really, really far from where we are right now, its far from anything thats really been debated in a serious way in the Congress, and it would be extremely expensive to implement. It would require huge tax increases. And that is the kind of political debate that doesnt typically get very far when its outside the confines of a campaign.michael barbaroSo we know Sanders loses the primary, and so his campaign ends. What happens to Medicare for all after that?margot sanger-katzIts really interesting. Medicare for all gets more popular than ever. So, you know, its not just that Sanders loses the primary to Hillary Clinton, who wants to do something much more moderate on health care, but also Hillary Clinton loses the election to Donald Trump.archived recording (donald trump)Im going to repeal and replace your disastrous Obamacare. [CROWD CHEERING] Much cheaper, much better.margot sanger-katzSo you might think that this sort of really left-wing idea of doing a universal health care would just go away, but instead it starts to gain in popularity, and we see this in a couple of different ways. Public opinion surveys show steady and modest increases in the number of Americans who seem interested in this idea when theyre asked about it. And the other thing that happens is we start to see way more Democrats in Congress signing on to proposals like the Sanders proposal. So Sanders himself had a bill that he had brought forward in previous Congresses and, basically, no one wanted to co-sign it. And then he brought it again in 2017, and all of a sudden he had, I think, 16 co-sponsors, including lots of really ambitious Democratic senators that we expected to run for president, and we now see are running for president. And theres a bill in the House that had been introduced year after year with very few co-sponsors, and all of a sudden, again, in 2017, we saw the majority of Democrats in the House were signing onto this bill.michael barbaroHow do you explain that shift?margot sanger-katzI definitely think that Sanders was part of it. And if you talk to him, he definitely thinks he was part of it  that he really brought this into the mainstream of our political conversation. But I think there are a couple of other factors. One is that after Trump became president, the first thing he tried to do in legislation was repeal the Affordable Care Act. And, you know, Republicans had a lot of indications that was going to be a good idea. Their voters had been telling them for years that they really didnt like Obamacare and they wanted it to go away. But actually, that turned out to be kind of politically perilous for the Republicans.archived recordingAnd today, the president summoned G.O.P. lawmakers to the White House for the second time in less than a month, after two versions of a bill to repeal and replace Obamacare failed.margot sanger-katzThey failed multiple attempts to repeal the Affordable Care Act, and its popularity got higher than ever. And there was kind of this boost among Democratic activists over health care  that they started to really care about the issue, and get organized, and get angry.archived recordingMany of the Republican congressmen who held town halls during this recess have heard the wrath of many of their constituents.margot sanger-katzAnd I think some of those people are bringing new energy to the single-payer moment.archived recordingIn North Dakota, congressman Kevin Cramer heard from a woman with a disabled child. She asked him not to repeal Obamacare, with her family facing bankruptcy. This is what $3.5 million looks like, and shes two years old.margot sanger-katzAnd then the third thing that I think that happens is the Democrats are kind of on their heels. Theyre not in control of Congress anymore. Theyre not in control of the White House. They dont actually have to govern. And so I think that makes them a little bit more open to something thats more idealistic, thats more aspirational.michael barbaroMm-hmm.margot sanger-katzWhen theyre in the minority, I think they can say, we want to tell you what our values are. We want to tell you what our dreams are and what we care about  equity, and we care about fairness. And they dont really have to worry about the dirty little details.archived recordingWhen our congressmen took a party-line vote that would have canceled health insurance for thousands of Virginians, I knew I had to run.margot sanger-katzThats exactly what we saw happen in the midterms.archived recordingHealth care affects everyone. Making it into a partisan battle makes things worse.margot sanger-katzWe saw a lot of Democrats all across the country running with health care as their primary message.archived recordingIm voting for Mikie Sherrill because I know shell like fight for me and my family, my daughter, and for the A.C.A.margot sanger-katzAnd it was very effective. They took over a lot of seats in the House that had previously been held by Republicans. But I think the exact message that they drew from this is a little bit mixed. I think a lot of them felt, oh, people really just want me to protect what they already have  that we have a very good message in protecting the Affordable Care Act. But some of these Democrats who won running on health care felt like this is a reason to go forward, to push further than the Affordable Care Act because the electorate really responds to this issue. And I think you can really see this now as the 2020 presidential field is starting to heat up. Senator Sanders, obviously, continues to support it. Cory Booker, the senator from New Jersey, is in favor of the Sanders proposal. Elizabeth Warren was a co-sponsor of Senator Sanders bill in the last Congress. But it is not universal among Democratic candidates. We saw Amy Klobuchar, a Democratic senator from Minnesota, who said, this is too aspirational. Its too pie in the sky. We need to focus on more incremental changes that are more politically possible. They all want to make some increase for the role of government  try to have there be more health care available for more people, to make it more affordable. But there is this range from little technocratic fixes to lets do single-payer.michael barbaroWell, lets talk about that. What does it mean when a candidate for the Democratic presidential primary in this moment says Medicare for all? What are the actual proposals on the table?margot sanger-katzWho knows? I mean, we are so vague right now. I think when Bernie Sanders says Medicare for all, we know what he means because he talked about it in 2016 and he has a legislative proposal. I think with a lot of these other candidates, they are kind of latching onto a brand name that seems to be pretty popular with the public, that reminds them of Medicare, which a lot of people like. But were not in the phase of the campaign yet where we have really specific proposals that tell us exactly what it is that they want to do.michael barbaroTo the degree that Medicare for all is an actual, credible proposal like what has been offered by Senator Bernie Sanders, how practical is it? How expensive would it be to create? How disruptive would it be to the current health care system?margot sanger-katzI think its almost hard to underestimate how disruptive it would be. Just to give one example, right now we have private health insurance companies that cover most Americans. These are big corporations. Theyre among the largest and most michael barbaroAetna, Cigna, Blue Cross Blue Shield.margot sanger-katzYeah. These companies would essentially be wiped out by the Sanders proposal.michael barbaroWow.margot sanger-katzThere would be no private insurance. Everyone would get their insurance directly from the government.michael barbaroAnd what about the cost?margot sanger-katzSo this would be an enormously expensive proposal. It is not necessarily expensive compared to all the ways that Americans pay for health care now. So right now, your employer, if you get employer based insurance, they pay something towards your insurance premium, you pay something towards your insurance premium. When you go to the hospital, maybe you pay a deductible. There are kind of all of these different pots that your health care dollars come from. What the Medicare for All plan would do is it would say, no ones going to pay into any of those streams  the federal government is going to pay for all the medical bills, but in order to pay that, they have to collect way more money in taxes. So various estimates say it would cost more than $30 trillion to administer something like the Sanders plan. That is a lot of money. And that is so much money that you cant just raise it by taxing the rich. You would really have to have very broad-based taxes that would reach across the income spectrum.michael barbaroSo what you have described is a pretty radical idea that would upend a huge segment of the U.S. economy. It would require major changes to the tax code. So I wonder if theres any practical chance that this actually could get through our legislative and political process to become the U.S. health care system.margot sanger-katzSo Im always wary of making political predictions, but it seems extremely unlikely to me right now for a couple of reasons. One is that Republicans are dead-set against this. So now were left with just Democrats who would have to vote for such a bill. And then you would have to imagine that they could all agree on a proposal this radical. And I dont think that there is enough unanimity among Democrats right now on this issue. But I also think that this is a way for Democratic politicians to signal that they are signed onto a particular set of values about fairness, about affordability, about kind of all being in it together. And I think that they want to send those kind of values messages to voters, even if theyre not necessarily sending them a specific policy platform that they can deliver on. And so I think its a way to say, like, thats the mountain-top goal. Were going to get there eventually. But its not necessarily saying, you know, on day one, Im going to get there right away.michael barbaroWell, what exactly does that path look like, then, from where we are in the minds of these Democratic candidates to a someday-world where Medicare for all, as envisioned by someone like Bernie Sanders, could ever be a reality?margot sanger-katzSo I had this really interesting and instructive experience about a year ago. I went with Bernie Sanders to Toronto, and we went on a tour of the Canadian health care system. And I would say that Canadas system is the closest analog to what a lot of these politicians are proposing. And one thing that just really struck me about Canada is that people are all in on the values piece. There is just a real sense of kind of social solidarity around the idea that health care is a right, and everyone should have it in the country, and there shouldnt be any restrictions, and that it should be sort of radically fair. And that just struck me culturally as so different. And the thing that I couldnt untangle when I was in Canada is, do they have those values because they have that system, or do they have that system because they already had those values? And I think, you know, part of what will be interesting if Democrats, you know, retake power, and if they start moving us on this path towards something more like single-payer is, how hard will it be to shift those values? We see them. There definitely are people in the Democratic base who believe them deeply in their hearts, but I dont think that most Americans feel that health care is a fundamental right and that everyone should have it. And I dont know if that will change.michael barbaroRight. Which comes first, the values that say that health care is a right, or the national health care system that dictates that? And from everything youve described, something like 80 years of U.S. history suggests that there has not been an appetite for this kind of a system. So the only way it would work is if we believe, right, that the system could come first and the values would flow from it.margot sanger-katzI dont know. I almost think that the opposite thing is probably true  that its really hard to imagine it being possible to pass something that would be so earth-shattering, that would make so many changes to our health care system, to our tax code, to the way that health care is delivered if we dont have buy-in. And so I think that a real challenge for politicians around this issue is really going to be winning hearts and minds and trying to convince people that this vision of how the health care system should work is worth the disruption. The people who really believe in it really believe in it, but there are a lot of people that they will have to persuade.michael barbaroIts interesting. So when candidates like Bernie Sanders say Medicare for all, potentially, hes actually trying to change the American culture to the point where Medicare for all could actually work. In other words, when he or anyone says Medicare for all, theyre actually calling for the cultural change required for the U.S. to get excited and adopt Medicare for all.margot sanger-katzMaybe. I mean, it could be that this is the only way that were going to get the kind of cultural change that would be required to make a policy change of this magnitude, but I also think that there are real risks here. Its totally possible that America could engage with this idea, and we could have a big debate about it in a presidential election, and then could thoroughly reject it. And then we sort of end up with the kind of politics around health care that weve had for a long time, where these sort of universal health care proposals are put forward, its decided that theyre kind of too radical for where we are, and they get shelved again.michael barbaroHm.margot sanger-katzWhich would put us in kind of a familiar situation of having considered a big government-run health care system and saying, no, thanks.michael barbaroMargot, thank you very much. We appreciate it.margot sanger-katzIm so happy to come on. [MUSIC]michael barbaroIn his new budget unveiled on Monday, President Trump called for $845 billion in cuts to Medicare over the next decade, setting up a 2020 presidential race in which he will seek to shrink the program, while many of his Democratic rivals propose expanding it.We have a structure that frankly works for most Americans, said Charles N. Kahn III, the president of the Federation of American Hospitals, which represents investor-owned hospitals. Lets make it work for all Americans. We reject the notion that we need to turn the whole apple cart over and start all over again.The Democrats proposals could radically change the way health care providers do business and could drastically shrink the role and the revenues of insurers, depending on how a single-payer system is devised.The hospital federation and two powerful lobbies, Americas Health Insurance Plans and the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, created a coalition last June to pre-empt what they saw as an alarming groundswell of interest in proposals to expand the federal role in health care.In a daily fusillade of digital advertising, videos and Twitter posts, the coalition, the Partnership for Americas Health Care Future, says that Medicare for all will require tax increases and give politicians and bureaucrats control of medical decisions now made by doctors and patients  arguments that echo those made to stop Medicare in the 1960s, Mrs. Clintons health plan in 1993 and the Affordable Care Act a decade ago.The coalition will step up the tempo in the coming week as Democrats in the House and the Senate plan to introduce bills to establish a single-payer system.The name of the coalition is intentionally nondescript, and its executive director, Lauren Crawford Shaver, who led Mrs. Clintons efforts in 2016 to put marginal states into play, is cagey when asked for details. She says only that the group is planning a big nationwide effort with grass-roots allies.But its reach is undeniable. The coalition has picked up more than 25 members, including the American Medical Association, the American Hospital Association and the nations Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans.And it has already sprung into action.When Senator Bernie Sanders, the author of the Medicare for All Act, announced on Tuesday that he was again running for president, the coalition immediately attacked him as a leading advocate for upending our nations health care system in favor of starting from scratch with Medicare for all.Mr. Sanders, independent of Vermont, fired back at the insurance and drug companies. They make tens of billions of dollars a year in profits from this dysfunctional health care system and pay their C.E.O.s outrageous compensation packages, Mr. Sanders said. Weve expected their opposition all along.When members of Congress unveiled legislation to let people age 50 to 64 buy into Medicare, the coalition conflated it with proposals to put all Americans into Medicare.This is a slippery slope to government-run health care for every American, said David Merritt, an executive vice president of Americas Health Insurance Plans, a lobby for insurers.The buy-in proposal for older Americans dates back to Bill Clintons presidency, and many of its advocates have put it forward as a moderate alternative to Medicare for all.But the coalition said the proposal was wrong for America, whether you call it Medicare for all, Medicare buy-in, single payer or a public option.The chief sponsor of the House buy-in bill, Representative Brian Higgins, Democrat of New York, said: The critics lump our bill with the bigger Medicare-for-all proposal. Thats strategic, and I think its deliberate.Mr. Higgins said the option of Medicare at age 50 would create a countervailing force to private insurance.Insurance companies are fighting it because they are afraid of the prospect of a potent new competitor that will cut into their profits, Mr. Higgins said. Medicare has lower administrative costs and lower executive salaries and could use its bargaining power to get better deals from hospitals and other health care providers.Senator Debbie Stabenow, Democrat of Michigan and the sponsor of the buy-in bill in the Senate, said she was not surprised at the criticism. Its a knee-jerk reaction to anything that expands Medicare, she said.But, she said, people 50 to 64 need the option.We see the auto industry laying people off, encouraging people to retire early, Ms. Stabenow said. Many people are holding their breath until they turn 65. They put off preventive screenings, so they come into Medicare at 65 with more health problems.Under the Affordable Care Act, insurers can increase premiums with a persons age, and older people who do not qualify for subsidies face the highest premiums on the insurance exchange. For a 60-year-old in Charlotte, N.C., the average premium for a midlevel silver plan is more than $1,100 a month; in Phoenix, it is nearly $1,000 a month.The mission of the industry partnership includes advocacy, advertising, lobbying and public education, but it has not registered under federal lobbying laws. Forbes Tate, a public affairs company that lobbies for many health care and drug companies, coordinates the work of the partnership, but is not registered to lobby on its behalf.There are no direct lobbyists for the partnership, Ms. Shaver said. We work through all of our different groups. They have their own lobbyists who do obviously lobby on Medicare for all. But there are no registered lobbyists for the partnership because we are not doing that directly at this time.The coalition, like President Trump, attacks any proposals that smack of socialized medicine. But it also has a positive agenda. It wants to expand Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act in Texas, Florida and other states that have yet to do so. It wants to expand federal subsidies under the health law so insurance will be affordable to more people. And it wants to stabilize premiums by persuading states to set up reinsurance programs, using a combination of federal and state funds to help pay the largest claims.Beyond their desire to preserve the status quo, coalition members have done well by the Affordable Care Act. Many participants, such as the American Medical Association, the pharmaceuticals lobby and the hospital association, backed the A.C.A. from the start, banking that more insured Americans would mean more customers. The hospitals saw the health laws Medicaid expansion as a lifeline as they struggled with the uninsured working poor.Others, like the National Retail Federation, opposed the A.C.A. but have tried to make it work.The need to bolster the Affordable Care Act will become even more urgent, the coalition says, if Texas and other states succeed in their lawsuit to invalidate the entire law.Even without legislation to expand Medicare, the program is sure to grow because of the aging of the baby boom generation. The number of Medicare beneficiaries, 60 million today, is expected to top 75 million within a decade. The Congressional Budget Office estimates that Medicare spending will grow under current law to $1.5 trillion in 2029, double the total projected for this year.E. Neil Trautwein, the vice president for health care policy at the retail federation, which represents companies like Walmart, McDonalds and Amazon, said his top priority was to protect the stability of the coverage that employers provide to employees.We are trying to understand what will be coming at us, Mr. Trautwein said. Proposals on the left and the right, in Congress and on the campaign trail, could blow up the employer-based health care system that has worked pretty well for more than 60 years.The version of Medicare for all proposed by Mr. Sanders in 2017 could disrupt that coverage. It would expand the list of items and services covered by Medicare and would prohibit employers from duplicating any of those benefits.When Mr. Sanders introduced that bill, it was endorsed by several Democratic senators who have since become candidates for the partys presidential nomination: Cory Booker of New Jersey, Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, Kamala Harris of California and Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts.The more modest Medicare buy-in bill has been endorsed by Mr. Booker, Ms. Gillibrand and Ms. Harris, as well as by another Democratic candidate for president, Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, and a potential candidate, Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio.Yet another Democratic proposal, allowing states to create a Medicaid buy-in program for all their residents, regardless of income, has won support from 23 senators, including Mr. Booker, Mr. Brown, Ms. Gillibrand, Ms. Harris, Ms. Klobuchar and Ms. Warren.Members of the coalition had different positions in the struggle to pass the Affordable Care Act in 2009 and 2010, but rave about it today. Ten million people have coverage through the exchanges, 14 million have gained Medicaid coverage, and in a strong economy more people have jobs that provide health insurance, they say.Some members of the coalition have financial as well as philosophical reasons for resisting the push to expand Medicare. Doctors and hospitals say Medicare generally pays less than private insurance, and hospitals say the payments frequently do not cover the costs of providing care to Medicare patients.Chronic underpayment to providers creates access issues for seniors, particularly with physicians, who may limit the number of Medicare patients they see, said Richard J. Pollack, the president of the American Hospital Association. Congress, he said, often makes changes in Medicare for reasons that have nothing to do with sound health policy  to offset the costs of tax cuts, for example.Moreover, Mr. Pollack said: The government can be an unreliable business partner. What happens when the government shuts down? What happens if the health care system is even more dependent on Medicare and the government shuts down again?But the coalition does not speak for all health care providers.The American College of Physicians, the largest medical specialty organization in the country, has supported a Medicare buy-in for people 55 to 64.And during the whole debate over the Affordable Care Act, we supported having a public option in the individual insurance market in every state, said Robert B. Doherty, senior vice president of the college, which represents 154,000 doctors who specialize in internal medicine.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byGood Tuesday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today._____________________  Virginias turmoil deepened on Monday as Gov. Ralph Northam, struggling with fallout from the revelation of a racist photo on his medical school yearbook page, was indirectly accused of sabotage by his own lieutenant governor. Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax suggested the governors allies had a hand in unearthing sexual assault claims made against him, to stop him from becoming governor should Mr. Northam resign. In tonights State of the Union speech, which he spent the weekend preparing for, President Trump is expected to announce a national commitment to end the spread of H.I.V. by 2030. From immigration to infrastructure, heres what to expect from Mr. Trumps address tonight. Stacy Abrams, whose unsuccessful run for governor of Georgia attracted much attention, and who will deliver the Democratic rebuttal to the State of the Union, is being courted to run for the Senate in 2020. Some House Democrats will send pointed messages to Mr. Trump with the guests they bring to his address, including climate scientists and survivors of sexual assault. Mr. Trumps legislative path to a border wall has narrowed significantly, and his fallback plan, circumventing Congress by declaring a state of emergency, threatens to splinter his own party. As the government struggles merely to stay open, Head Start, the preschool program, offers a story of bipartisan progress at odds with a polarizing time. Mr. Trump has tried to use fear as a prime motivator, with U.S. allies and with Democrats in Congress. It has not worked well for him so far. Utah officials are moving to roll back the expansion of Medicaid approved by voters in November, and they say they have received encouragement from the Trump administration._____________________Todays On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grulln Paz in New York.Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Is there anything you think were missing? Anything you want to see more of? Wed love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Mitch Smith and Lisa LererMINNEAPOLIS  Amy Klobuchar, the third-term Minnesota senator, entered the race for the Democratic presidential nomination on Sunday, hopeful that her moderate politics, Midwestern roots and carefully cultivated history of bipartisanship can appeal to a broad swath of voters in contentious times.On a snow-covered stage in Minneapolis along the banks of the Mississippi River, with the temperature barely above single digits, Ms. Klobuchar said that as president she would focus on getting things done and reverse some of President Trumps signature policies. On her first day in office, she said, the United States would rejoin the Paris climate agreement.For too long, leaders in Washington have sat on the sidelines while others try to figure out what to do about our changing economy and its impact on our lives, what to do about the disruptive nature of new technologies, income inequality, the political and geographic divides, the changing climate, the tumult in our world, she said.Lets stop seeing those obstacles as obstacles on our path, she continued. Lets see those obstacles as our path.Ms. Klobuchar, 58, is the fifth woman currently serving in Congress to announce her candidacy, joining a crowded and diverse field of Democratic presidential hopefuls. With most of the top-tier candidates hailing from coastal states, Ms. Klobuchar believes  her low-key brand of Minnesota nice politics could make her a compelling candidate, particularly to the Iowa voters who cast the first primary votes and in states like Wisconsin, Michigan and Pennsylvania that swung the 2016 election to President Trump.Shes not afraid to just be herself, said Shirley Friberg, 81, of suburban Minneapolis, who clutched a cup of hot cocoa before the event and offered a scarf to a frozen stranger. And I think in small towns, thats a big thing.[Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.]A politician who prides herself on being able to disagree without being disagreeable, Ms. Klobuchar coasted to victory in November, beating her Republican opponent with 60 percent of the vote in a state that Mr. Trump nearly won in 2016.Despite Ms. Klobuchars friendly public persona, shes said to be a difficult boss. A survey of senators by the website LegiStorm from 2001 to 2016 found that her office had the highest turnover in the Senate. I have high expectations, she told The New York Times last year. A recent HuffPost article portrayed her as a demanding manager who lost some potential 2020 campaign staff members because of her reputation.Republicans latched onto that criticism on Sunday, dismissing her candidacy as one of limited appeal.She has virtually no grass-roots backing and even her own staff is complaining that shes intolerably cruel, Michael Ahrens, a spokesman for the Republican National Committee, said in a statement.Her popularity at home, however, was hard to dispute. Despite the distinctly Minnesota weather, supporters turned out by the thousands on Sunday, cramming into a riverfront park wearing snow pants, ski goggles and parkas. Some arrived on cross-country skis or brought dogs wearing coats.Asha Harris, 37, of Minneapolis, said the criticisms of the senators management style were plainly sexist.When a woman is demanding and wants something and wants people to perform, its seen as difficult, said Ms. Harris, who was still deciding which Democratic candidate to support. Ive had a lot of demanding bosses, male bosses, in my life, and nothing was said of them. They were told they were great leaders.As snow accumulated on her coat and microphone, Ms. Klobuchar told the crowd that she would focus on reforming election laws, including a plan to automatically register people to vote when they turned 18. She also pledged to expand laws protecting online privacy.Her announcement caught the attention of Mr. Trump, who said on Twitter on Sunday afternoon: Amy Klobuchar announced that she is running for president, talking proudly of fighting global warming while standing in a virtual blizzard of snow, ice and freezing temperatures. Bad timing.While her approach may appeal to centrists and moderate Republicans in her home state, her breaks with liberal orthodoxy risk alienating the ascendant progressive wing of her party. Ms. Klobuchar backs a less expansive college affordability proposal, has not embraced Senator Bernie Sanderss Medicare for all legislation and has not joined the movement to abolish the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency.Facing a relatively safe re-election race, Ms. Klobuchar spent most of the midterms promoting other Democrats running for office in her home state. She has made numerous visits to Iowa during her 12 years in office, most recently to push a message of heartland economics to rural residents and farmers, arguing that Democrats cannot afford to forget about the middle of the country.Minnesota matters, Wisconsin matters, Nebraska matters, Ohio matters  and, yes, Iowa matters, she told the Iowa Farmers Union in December.Ms. Klobuchar grew up in the Minneapolis suburbs as the daughter of a schoolteacher and a columnist for The Minneapolis Star Tribune. After graduating from Yale and the University of Chicago Law School, she returned to Minnesota to work as a corporate lawyer. The birth of her daughter, who was born with a condition that required her to remain in the hospital, plunged her into political activism. Ms. Klobuchar pushed for legislation that would guarantee new mothers a 48-hour hospital stay, a proposal that eventually became federal law. She was elected prosecutor for the states most populous county in 1998 and became the first elected female senator from her state in 2006.In the Senate, Ms. Klobuchar has cultivated a worker-bee persona, not leading on divisive issues like immigration and focusing instead on curbing the cost of prescription drugs, addressing sexual harassment and protecting online privacy. A 2016 analysis found that she had passed the most laws of anyone in the Senate.Ms. Klobuchar rose to national prominence during the Senate Judiciary Committee hearing for Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh, when she pressed the nominee on whether he had blacked out drinking. Have you? he shot back, to which she calmly replied, I have no drinking problem, Judge.When I turned on the TV and watched that hearing, I was so damn proud she was our senator, said Gov. Tim Walz, one of several Minnesota officials who spoke at Ms. Klobuchars event.After she took the stage to chants of Amy, Ms. Klobuchar reminisced about her family ties to northern Minnesotas mining-centric Iron Range. The region, once a Democratic stronghold, has remained supportive of Ms. Klobuchar even as Mr. Trump and other Republicans have made inroads.I always liked Amy, said Bob Vlaisavljevich, the Republican mayor of Eveleth, Minn., an Iron Range town with 3,700 residents, who said he voted for Ms. Klobuchar last year and posed for photos with her in front of the worlds largest free-standing hockey stick. Shes just more reasonable, more accessible, more sympathetic to where were coming from on things.Whether that bipartisan appeal would come through in a presidential election remains uncertain. If there were a Klobuchar-Trump matchup in 2020, Mr. Vlaisavljevich said he would probably lean toward the president.Mitch Smith reported from Minneapolis, and Lisa Lerer from Washington.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Sharon LaFraniere and Katie BennerWASHINGTON  The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, on Friday delivered a report on his inquiry into Russian interference in the 2016 election to Attorney General William P. Barr, bringing to a close an investigation that has consumed the nation and cast a shadow over President Trump for nearly two years.Mr. Barr told congressional leaders in a letter that he may brief them on the special counsels principal conclusions as early as this weekend, a surprisingly fast turnaround for a report anticipated for months. The attorney general said he remained committed to as much transparency as possible.In an apparent endorsement of an investigation that Mr. Trump has relentlessly attacked as a witch hunt, Mr. Barr said Justice Department officials never had to intervene to keep Mr. Mueller from taking an inappropriate or unwarranted step. The departments regulations would have required Mr. Barr to inform the leaders of the House and Senate Judiciary committees about any such interventions in his letter.A senior Justice Department official said that Mr. Mueller would not recommend new indictments, a statement aimed at ending speculation that Mr. Trump or other key figures might be charged down the line. With department officials emphasizing that Mr. Muellers inquiry was over and his office closing, the question for both Mr. Trumps critics and defenders was whether the prosecutors condemned the presidents behavior in their report, exonerated him  or neither. The presidents lawyers were already girding for a possible fight over whether they could assert executive privilege to keep parts of the report secret.[Update: Read Attorney General William Barrs summary of the Mueller Report.]Since Mr. Muellers appointment in May 2017, his team has focused on how Russian operatives sought to sway the outcome of the 2016 presidential race and whether anyone tied to the Trump campaign, wittingly or unwittingly, cooperated with them. While the inquiry, started months earlier by the F.B.I., unearthed a far-ranging Russian influence operation, no public evidence emerged that the president or his aides illegally assisted it.Nonetheless, the damage to Mr. Trump and those in his circle has been extensive. A half-dozen former Trump aides were indicted or convicted of crimes, mostly for lying to federal investigators or Congress. Others remain under investigation in cases that Mr. Muellers office handed off to federal prosecutors in New York and elsewhere. Dozens of Russian intelligence officers or citizens, along with three Russian companies, were charged in cases that are likely to languish in court because the defendants cannot be extradited to the United States.Republicans immediately seized upon the news that no more indictments are expected as a vindication of Mr. Trump and his campaign. Those reports confirm what weve known all along: There was never any collusion with Russia, Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the second-highest-ranking House Republican, said in a statement.Democrats, including some of those hoping to supplant Mr. Trump in the White House in the 2020 election, insisted that Mr. Muellers full report be made public, including the underlying evidence. In a joint statement, Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the top Senate Democrat, warned Mr. Barr not to allow the White House a sneak preview of the document.The White House must not be allowed to interfere in decisions about what parts of those findings or evidence are made public, they said.Not since Watergate has a special prosecutors inquiry so mesmerized the American public. Polls have shown that most Americans want to know its findings, and the House unanimously passed a nonbinding resolution to publicize the report.Mr. Barrs letter said he would decide what to release after consulting with Mr. Mueller and Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who has overseen his investigation. Justice Department officials emphasized that the White House had been kept at a distance.Only a handful of law enforcement officials have seen the report, said Kerri Kupec, a department spokeswoman.More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation.Although a White House lawyer was notified that Mr. Mueller had delivered it to Mr. Barr, no White House official has seen the report or been briefed on it, according to Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary. The next steps are up to Attorney General Barr, and we look forward to the process taking its course, she said.Rudolph W. Giuliani, one of the presidents personal lawyers, said he planned to remain in Washington over the weekend in part because Mr. Barr might update Congress on Mr. Muellers findings.He sidestepped a question about whether the presidents lawyers were seeking to review the report before any of it becomes public. White House lawyers have been preparing for the possibility they may need to argue some material is protected by executive privilege, especially if the report discusses whether the presidents interactions with his top aides or legal advisers are evidence of obstruction of justice.Even though Mr. Muellers report is complete, some aspects of his inquiry remain active and may be overseen by the same prosecutors once they are reassigned to their old jobs in the Justice Department. For instance, recently filed court documents suggest that investigators are still examining why the former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort turned over campaign polling data in 2016 to a Russian associate who prosecutors said was tied to Russian intelligence.Mr. Mueller looked extensively at whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice to protect himself or his associates. But despite months of negotiations, prosecutors were unable to personally interview the president.Mr. Trumps lawyers insisted that he respond only to written questions from the special counsel. Even though under current Justice Department policy, a sitting president cannot be indicted, Mr. Trumps lawyers worried that his responses in an oral interview could bring political repercussions, including impeachment, or put him in legal jeopardy once he is out of office.transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Clare Toeniskoetter, Annie Brown and Theo Balcomb, and edited by Lisa Tobin, with help from Paige CowettThe Mueller report has been sent to the attorney general. Heres a look at what this means and what comes next.michael barbaroSo its here.michael schmidtWell, its in the hands of Bill Barr. Its not here in the sense that we can publicly consume it and see what Bob Mueller found. It has just moved from one pocket, which we cant see into, into another pocket that we cant see into.michael barbaroBut it has moved pockets, at least, which is something. Something weve been waiting two years for.michael schmidtCorrect. Bob Mueller is done with his investigation.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, Im Michael Barbaro. This is a special episode of The Daily. Today: The Mueller report has been sent to the attorney general. Its Friday afternoon, March 22. So Mike, talk me through your day today.michael schmidtSo knowing it was going to be a big day, I turned on the recorder as soon as I left the house this morning and made my way into the office to hurry up and wait.[music]michael schmidtAll right. 10:05 a.m.michael schmidtI left my house at 10:00 a.m.michael schmidtWe expect the report to be finished today around noon.michael schmidtWalking down 17th Street, heading to the office.michael schmidtI got a call from the office from my editor wanting to know what I knew. Told her I knew nothing. Last thing an editor wants to hear  nothing new.michael schmidtNot a ton of people on the streets.speakerExcuse me.michael schmidtYes?speakerDo you know where the Jamaican Embassy is?michael schmidtI do not, Im sorry. Do you know what the address is?michael schmidtWas stopped by a woman who couldnt find the Jamaican embassy.michael schmidtO.K., so youre going to want to go this way. Go to DuPont Circle, and make a right. Just keep on following that trail.speakerOh, O.K., so Im going the wrong way.michael schmidtWell, were all going the wrong way.michael schmidtCome up to Massachusetts Avenue.michael schmidtCold March day. Fairly cold here in Washington. 45 degrees.michael schmidtJust had a normal sort of walk into the office.michael schmidt[HUMMING] Half a block away, coming up to 17th michael barbaroIt doesnt seem like youre in a big hurry to get to the office.michael schmidtWell, all the work has been done. We know whats coming.michael schmidtHow are you?speakerHey, Mike.michael schmidtWhats going on?michael schmidtSo come into the building.michael schmidtBig day? No? Not a big day? All right.michael schmidtGet on the elevator.elevator voice announcerFloor seven.michael schmidtWalk into the office. And everyone wants to know speaker 1What do you got? What do you got?speaker 2Chasing the report.michael schmidtWhens it going to happen?speakerThis is the question I ask him every five michael schmidtDays or speakerDays or weeks.michael schmidtDays or weeks?michael schmidtThe whole apparatus of The New York Times is jacked up for this moment.michael schmidtWe got Nick here. Were all ready.speakerGangs all here.michael schmidtTheres been a lot of time and planning thats gone into this. Theres a lot of stories that have been written that are ready to go.speakerDoes that seem right?michael schmidtYep.speakerO.K.michael schmidtEveryones sitting around waiting, and they want answers.dean baquetSo whats the latest?michael schmidtDean Baquet, our executive editor, calls down to Washington to ask Elisabeth Bumiller, our bureau chief, what do you know?elisabeth bumillerYoure not so sure about it?michael schmidtIm less sure about the timing, but michael schmidtElizabeth calls me over to her desk, puts him on speakerphone. Mikey, what do you know?dean baquetDo you know much of a heads-up we may or may not get?michael schmidtMy guess is not a lot because I dont know what there is to get a heads-up on.michael schmidtAnd I said, I dont know.michael barbaro[LAUGHS] You tell them that you dont know.michael schmidtWe dont know!dean baquetO.K.elisabeth bumillerThats what we got.michael schmidtSo thats all we got.elisabeth bumillerAnd we have stories ready. Once we get the word from Justice, we just push a button.michael schmidtAll the work is done.elisabeth bumillerWere just tourists hanging around.michael schmidtWere sort of lemmings at this point.michael schmidtSo its sort of just having the same unsatisfying conversation with different people throughout the office for several hours while eating doughnuts.michael barbaro[LAUGHS]michael schmidtAnd then it happens.archived recordingThe special counsel investigation is over. Special Counsel Robert Mueller has concluded his investigation into Russian election interference and possible coordination with associates of President Donald Trump. That report has been submitted. Now the question is, what happens to it? How much gets released and when? That is up to the new attorney general, Bill Barr.michael barbaroSo what do we know at this stage? It is Friday afternoon. Whats our understanding?michael schmidtOur understanding is that the attorney general and his deputies now have a long weekend of reading ahead of them. They have to go through the report, see whats there, digest it, and then figure out what to do with it. How much of it should be made public, how much of it should be given to Congress, and how much of it should remain secret.michael barbaroIs that really all we know at this point? Is there anything about how this unfolded that tells us anything about the report or what Mueller has found, if hes decided to bring any charges against any figure in the White House, or how hes thinking about this?michael schmidtWe just know that Mueller is done. There are no more individuals that will be charged by the special counsels office in the investigation. If anyone else has gotten caught up in this, they will be indicted by other U.S. attorneys across the country who have absorbed investigations from the special counsels office.michael barbaroSo the version of the report that will go to Congress and be seen by the public is the version that the attorney general has had a chance to go through and decide which parts should be seen by the larger world and which should not. And thats still going to take a while for him to figure out.michael schmidtCorrect. And its a very difficult process, because if there is criminality in regards to the president, its a very tricky issue to navigate. The Justice Department has a policy that says the president cant be indicted. But if the president cant be indicted, Congress should deal with that behavior. How do you give that information to Congress? Its not a snap decision you can make  like, O.K., Muellers done, this is what he found. Lets put this in another box and send it to Congress. Its far trickier.michael barbaroSo how does the A.G. make the decision about what to include and what not to include in this report?michael schmidtBarr is in this incredibly difficult spot, because he has to figure out how much information to share with the public and Congress in a way that is enough to leave people convinced that this investigation was done thoroughly and based on following the facts. But he has to protect the president from disclosures about him that the public may be interested in, that his political enemies may want to know, but that has no bearing on the actual criminal investigation that was done.michael barbaroAnd does how the attorney general handles that balance depend, in your mind, Mike, on what the report from Mueller finds and says and recommends?michael schmidtYes. If Mueller says the president didnt break the law, then Barr has to figure out how much information to give to Congress so that Congress takes those findings seriously. The problem is Barr is in a very difficult spot politically, because the Democrats have already concluded the president did something wrong. So if Barr learns from Mueller that theres no criminality on the president, how does Barr then win over those Democrats and show them that Mueller truly made a decision based on the facts? How much of what the investigation found does he have to give to the Hill? In a normal criminal investigation, all of that information would not become public because the Justice Department would want to protect the individual who they have found did not commit a crime. But this situation is different, because a lot of people do think the president committed a crime. So how do you show the Democrats and the rest of the country that hey, look, this is what Mueller found. He only found X, Y, and Z. And if we wanted to make a case, he would have needed to have uncovered these other things, which he did not. And thats why were confident with his findings.michael barbaroAnd on the other hand, if Mueller does find criminality and perhaps recommend charges against the president, how does Barr have to proceed?michael schmidtWell, how much of the evidence that Mueller uncovered should go to Congress? What should be told to Congress? Should Congress be told explicitly, look, Mueller believes the president violated these laws, and heres the evidence to back it up? But what if some of that evidence has been obtained from a grand jury? The Justice Department cant just hand over grand jury information to Congress. What if the information is classified? Theyre not going to want to hand over classified information to Congress. They think Congress leaks like a sieve.michael barbaroIs it safe to say though, Mike, that if criminality is found by Mueller, Congress and the public will see more of the Muller report than if that is not found?michael schmidtMaybe. Maybe. But look, this is a highly unusual situation. The person who runs the executive branch, the president, has just been under investigation by folks inside of his own branch for the past 22 months. Very awkward situation.michael barbaroAnd the person making the decision about what we all will learn about that investigation is a direct appointee of that president.michael schmidtCorrect. Has the job because the president put him there. So the perception here is one where the average person looks at this and says, well, how can a guy who was made attorney general by the president look at this situation and make a decision that is free of politics? And how can I have confidence that this was done based on the facts?michael barbaroSo when will we know more? When will we know what the attorney general has decided on that front?michael schmidtOh, now you want to know more.michael barbaro[LAUGHS] Yes, please.michael schmidtThe greed of the news business.michael barbaroIf youll indulge us.michael schmidtWhen will we know more? Barr and his deputies will go through this, and I dont know  sometime in the next few days, sometime in the next few weeks. It may be a difficult process to unbraid. Mueller has been rummaging around the presidents life for 22 months. We dont have clarity into everything Muellers found. What if Barr looks at it and says, eh, Mueller thinks he violated this law and that law. But actually, I dont think he has it. Maybe theres not enough there. Maybe Barr disagrees with what Mueller has found, simply on a legal basis. The other thing is that Barr only really gets one shot to get it right. Whatever he goes out the door with in terms of handing over information to Congress, hes got to have it right. Hes not going to have a second chance to say, well, you know, I gave you that stuff. But like, meh, maybe its not what I thought it was. Or, oh, lets give you more. He has to get it right the first time. Otherwise, hell look like hes waffling.michael barbaroAnd how much of how Barr handles this will be with a mind toward the expectation that a Democratically controlled House of Representatives is already into a series of investigations that they only want to redouble once this report is in their hands?michael schmidtBarr clearly knows Congress is going to jump up and down until it is satisfied with the information that it wants about this investigation. He can drag that out and probably lose it one way or another, either in the court of public opinion or in the actual courts. So he probably just wants to get it over with as soon as possible. He knows this has been an enormous weight on the country, and that the sooner it is resolved, the sooner the country can move on.michael barbaroAnd Mike, what is the likelihood that the way we find out more about the Mueller report is not from the version thats sent to Congress, but from something else? I think were all really mindful of the fact that this is the era of the leak, and that this is the biggest potential leak in recent memory.michael schmidtYeah.michael barbaroWill it leak?michael schmidtI dont know. I mean, the number of people who will have access to this document will be very small. And they will know that if there are a lot of leaks about this, then the president can start to raise questions about whats really going on. It will look nefarious. The Democrats will get their backs up and say, well, if this stuff is leaking out, why cant we have access to it? They will know that their lives will be much more difficult if there are leaks here. Obviously, you could come up with a scenario where someone working on the investigation is frustrated that the Justice Department has decided to go one way or the other on the report, and they think, ah, screw it, Im going to make this public. But my guess is they have gone to great lengths to ensure that this is heavily protected.michael barbaroSo now we wait again.michael schmidtHurry up and wait.michael barbaroMike, thank you very much.michael schmidtThanks for having me.michael barbaroIn a letter to Democratic and Republican leaders of Congress sent on Friday afternoon, Attorney General William Barr said he would brief them on the major conclusions of the special counsels report as soon as this weekend. On Friday evening, The Times reported that Mueller is not recommending any new charges against President Trump or anyone else around him. Thats it for The Daily. Im Michael Barbaro. See you on Monday.Mr. Trump has helped make Mr. Mueller a household name, attacking his investigation an average of about twice a day as an unfair, politically motivated attempt to invalidate his election. He never forgave former Attorney General Jeff Sessions for recusing himself from the Russia inquiry, an action that cleared the way for his deputy, Mr. Rosenstein, to appoint Mr. Mueller.Mr. Trump reiterated his attacks on the special counsel this week, saying Mr. Mueller decided out of the blue to write a report, ignoring that regulations require him to do so. But the president also said the report should be made public because of tens of millions of Americans would want to know what it contains.Let people see it, Mr. Trump said. There was no collusion. There was no obstruction. There was no nothing.In court, the evidence amassed by the Mueller team has held up. Every defendant who is not still awaiting trial either pleaded guilty or was convicted by a jury. Although no American has been charged with illegally plotting with the Russians to tilt the election, Mr. Mueller uncovered a web of lies by former Trump aides.Five of them were found to have deceived federal investigators or Congress about their interactions with Russians during the campaign or the transition. They include Mr. Manafort; Michael T. Flynn, the presidents first national security adviser; and Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trumps former lawyer and longtime fixer. A sixth former adviser, Roger J. Stone Jr., is to stand trial in November on charges of lying to Congress.Those who know Mr. Mueller, a former F.B.I. director, had predicted a concise, legalistic report devoid of opinions  nothing like the 445-page treatise that Ken Starr, who investigated President Bill Clinton, produced in 1998. Operating under a now-defunct statute that governed independent counsels, Mr. Starr had far more leeway than Mr. Mueller to set his own investigative boundaries and to render judgments.Here are some pieces of the jigsaw puzzle. The full picture is missing.[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]The regulations that governed Mr. Mueller, who is under the supervision of the Justice Department, only required him to explain his decisions to either seek or decline to seek criminal charges in a confidential report to the attorney general. The attorney general was then required to notify the leadership of the House and Senate judiciary committees.Despite pledging transparency, Mr. Barr may be reluctant to release the part of Mr. Muellers report that may be of most interest: whom the special counsel declined to prosecute and why, especially if Mr. Trump is on that list.The departments longstanding practice, with rare exceptions, is not to identify people who were merely investigative targets to avoid unfairly tainting their reputations, especially because they would have no chance to defend themselves in a court of law. Mr. Rosenstein, who has overseen Mr. Muellers work and may have a say in what is released, is a firm believer in that principle.In a May 2017 letter that the president seized upon as justification for his decision to fire James B. Comey as F.B.I. director, Mr. Rosenstein severely criticized Mr. Comey for announcing during the previous year that Hillary Clinton, then a presidential candidate, would not be charged with a crime for mishandling classified information as secretary of state. Releasing derogatory information about the subject of a declined criminal investigation, Mr. Rosenstein wrote, is a textbook example of what federal prosecutors and agents are taught not to do.Weighing that principle against the publics right to know is even more fraught in the presidents case. If Mr. Mueller declined to pursue criminal charges against Mr. Trump, he might have been guided not by lack of evidence, but by the Justice Departments legal opinions that a sitting president cannot be indicted. The departments Office of Legal Counsel has repeatedly advised that the stigma and burden of being under prosecution would damage the presidents ability to lead.Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York and the head of the House Judiciary Committee, has argued that the departments view that presidents are protected from prosecution makes it all the more important for the public to see Mr. Muellers report.To maintain that a sitting president cannot be indicted, and then to withhold evidence of wrongdoing from Congress because the president cannot be charged, is to convert D.O.J. policy into the means for a cover-up, he said before the House approved its nonbinding resolution to disclose the special counsels findings.Some predict that any disclosures from Mr. Muellers report will satisfy neither Mr. Trumps critics nor his defenders, especially given the publics high expectations for answers. A Washington Post-Schar School poll in February illustrated the sharp divide in public opinion: It found that of those surveyed, most Republicans did not believe evidence of crimes that Mr. Muellers team had already proved in court, while most Democrats believed he had proved crimes that he had not even claimed.Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.OpinionThe Editorial BoardAdvertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Eileen SullivanAfter weeks of combing through the special counsel report on the investigation into Russias election interference, including whether any Trump associates coordinated with the Russians and whether President Trump tried to obstruct justice, Attorney General William P. Barr released a redacted version of the more than 400-page document on Thursday.Before releasing the report, Mr. Barr spoke at a news conference Thursday morning and delivered a defense of the president, repeating throughout his remarks that the special counsel found no evidence of conspiracy or collusion between the Trump campaign and the Russians.Democrats have said Mr. Barrs decision to deliver remarks before lawmakers or the public had a chance to read the report gave the attorney general a head start on shaping the narrative of the conclusions of the special counsel team, led by Robert S. Mueller III, and delivering an account favorable to Mr. Trump.In other words, there was no evidence of the Trump campaign collusion with the Russian governments hacking, Mr. Barr said on Thursday.Here are several things to know about the man in control of what the public can see in one of the most anticipated government documents in history.William Pelham Barr served as an attorney general during the George Bush administration from 1991 to 1993, meaning he has twice sworn to uphold the Constitution, which is not considered to be a pledge of loyalty to the president.Mr. Barr replaced former Attorney General Jeff Sessions, whom Mr. Trump publicly criticized and harangued after Mr. Sessions recused himself from overseeing the governments Russia investigation. Mr. Sessions was ultimately forced to resign because Mr. Trump found him to be disloyal, largely related to that recusal.Typically, the attorney general maintains an independence from the White House, but Mr. Trump has demonstrated that is not what he wants from his top law enforcement official.On Thursday, Mr. Trump appeared to be pleased with Mr. Barrs handling of the report, tweeting a meme that said, No Collusion. No Obstruction. For the haters and the radical left Democrats  Game Over.He later referred to the investigation as a hoax during remarks at an event to recognize wounded soldiers. This should never happen to another president again, this hoax, he said.As Mr. Barr defended the president, he said the special counsels considerations for whether the president obstructed justice must be taken in context.President Trump faced an unprecedented situation. As he entered into office and sought to perform his responsibilities as president, federal agents and prosecutors were scrutinizing his conduct before and after taking office and the conduct of some of his associates, Mr. Barr said on Thursday morning, before his department publicly released the report.At the same time there was relentless speculation in the news media about the presidents personal culpability, yet as he said from the beginning, there was, in fact, no collusion.The Constitution, according to Mr. Barrs interpretation, does not consider it a crime for the president to wield his executive powers corruptly, for instance by firing a subordinate or by pardoning a loyal aide. It is an interpretation favorable to Mr. Trump.He alone is the executive branch, Mr. Barr wrote in an unsolicited June 8, 2018 memo. As such, he is the sole repository of all Executive powers conferred by the Constitution. The document appeared to criticize Mr. Muellers inquiry into whether Mr. Trump had obstructed justice, and months later, when Mr. Barr received the Mueller report, which did not take a position on whether the president obstructed justice, Mr. Barr and Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein concluded Mr. Trump did no such thing.There is substantial evidence to show that the president was frustrated and angered by his sincere belief that the investigation was undermining his presidency, propelled by his political opponents and fueled by illegal leaks, Mr. Barr said on Thursday, in what appeared to be a defense of Mr. Trumps relentless attacks on his political opponents, his own Justice Department and the special counsels investigation.Nonetheless, the White House fully cooperated with the special counsels investigation, providing unfettered access to campaign and White House documents, directing senior aides to testify freely and asserting no privilege claims. And At the same time the president took no act that, in fact, deprived the special counsel of the documents and witnesses necessary to complete his investigation.Mr. Barr said during his confirmation hearing that he was approached, in June 2017, by an administration official who said he was looking for attorneys to add to the presidents defense team. Mr. Barr said he told the administration official he could not take on that role at the time, but he agreed to meet with Mr. Trump the next day.It was a very brief meeting where essentially the president wanted to know  he said, Oh, you know Bob Mueller. How well do you know Bob Mueller? Mr. Barr told senators during his January confirmation hearing. He left his phone number with the president at the end of the meeting. Mr. Barr added: I didnt hear  hear from him until, you know, later, but about something different, which was the attorney general position.[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]Mr. Barr and Mr. Mueller have been friends for 30 years, dating back to their early days at the Justice Department, Mr. Barr told lawmakers in January. He said he applauded the appointment of Mr. Mueller to take over the Russia investigation. And even though he wrote an unsolicited memo that appeared to criticize parts of Mr. Muellers investigation, Mr. Barr said he expected their friendship to be intact after the investigation was over. (He also said he was not criticizing Mr. Mueller in his memo).Their families are friends, as well, Mr. Barr has said. Their wives went to Bible study together, and Mr. Mueller has been a guest at two of Mr. Barrs daughterss weddings.But some members of Mr. Muellers team told associates that Mr. Barrs four-page letter in March did not adequately describe the conclusions of the special counsel.The special counsels investigators wrote multiple summaries of the dense report, and some members of the team thought Mr. Barr should have included them in his letter, which cited just a few partial quotes from the report.Last week, Mr. Barr said he would review the F.B.I.s investigation of the Trump campaigns ties to Russia, which would include a review of whether there was any improper spying by American intelligence agencies on the campaigns associates, something Mr. Trump has claimed for more than two years.Before he worked for Mr. Trump, Mr. Barr had defended the presidents calls for new investigations into his former Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton. In November 2017, Mr. Barr said there was nothing inherently wrong about a president calling for an investigation. He cautioned that such an investigation should only be launched if the matter warrants investigation, and not just because Mr. Trump wanted it.The attorney general at the time, Jeff Sessions, assigned a group of senior Justice Department lawyers to look into some of the accusations and report back on whether a special counsel should be appointed to pursue an inquiry. The Justice Department has not opened one.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Annie KarniWASHINGTON  Ivanka Trump, the presidents eldest daughter and senior adviser, will play a role in helping to select the next head of the World Bank, the White House said Monday.Ms. Trump, who had been rumored to be a contender for the position herself, will not be a candidate, a Trump administration official said. But she will assist the Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin, and the acting White House chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, in choosing a successor to Jim Yong Kim, the current president of the World Bank who announced last week he would be stepping down.Mr. Mnuchin called Ms. Trump last week and asked her if she would be involved, an administration official said.Jessica Ditto, a White House spokeswoman, said Ms. Trump was asked because shes worked closely with the World Banks leadership for the past two years.Administration officials are expected to begin the interview process for the job, which has always gone to an American, on Tuesday. The White House did not provide any names of contenders, but the official noted that one person whose name has been floated  Nikki R. Haley, the former United Nations ambassador  was not a candidate.Ms. Trump, Mr. Mnuchin and Mr. Mulvaney will make recommendations to President Trump, who will nominate a candidate for the position. Member countries of the World Bank will then vote on the nominee.Traditionally, the American presidents pick is accepted and Europe chooses the leader of the International Monetary Fund because both institutions were founded during World War II. Mr. Kim, for instance, a former Dartmouth College president and a global health expert, was selected for the post by President Barack Obama in 2012.Ms. Trump is seen inside the White House as having unique sway over her father, especially when it comes to personnel decisions. In a speech on Monday in front of a farm convention in New Orleans, Mr. Trump even conceded that it was Ms. Trumps constant nagging that pushed him to support a child care tax credit in the tax bill passed last year. Dad, Dad, we have to get it passed, Mr. Trump said, mimicking his daughters successful pressure campaign.In explaining Ms. Trumps qualifications for participating in the selection process, the administration official cited both Ms. Trumps close relationship with Mr. Mnuchin as well as her work with Mr. Kim.Last year, for instance, she helped start the Women Entrepreneurs Finance Initiative, a fund administered by the World Bank and branded We-Fi, at the Group of 20 conference in Hamburg, Germany. The goal of the fund, which Ms. Trump is credited with envisioning, is to generate $1.6 billion in capital for female entrepreneurs in developing countries.Ms. Trumps involvement with the World Bank has drawn criticism in the past. Senator Benjamin L. Cardin, Democrat of Maryland, sent a letter last year to Mr. Mnuchin raising questions about her role with the fund, given that her eponymous womens apparel and accessories brand could stand to benefit from its work. Since then, however, Ms. Trump has shut down her clothing line.But Richard W. Painter, who served as chief ethics lawyer under President George W. Bush, still questioned Ms. Trumps involvement, noting that she holds trademarks around the world, even if she has shut down her brand. He said he had similar doubts about her husband, Jared Kushner, also a senior White House adviser.I do not believe that Ivanka and Jared have sufficiently divested their assets that they can participate personally and substantially in economic policy  particularly international economic matters  without risk of violating financial conflict of interest laws, he said.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe president sees things how he sees things.By HengHeng Kim Song is an editorial cartoonist.As President Trump presses on with the trade war, observers say he hasnt wrapped his head around China. The miscalculation is expected to have costs.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Jose A. Del Real and Manny FernandezSAN DIEGO  Migrants who are allowed to remain in the United States to pursue asylum are usually given a choice when they are released from detention in San Diego: Go to the Greyhound bus station and fend for themselves, or try to find a cot and a shower at a local shelter.One way or another, once the migrants have been dropped off by discreet white Immigration and Customs Enforcement vans in border towns across the Southwest, they are no longer the federal governments problem.President Trump has tried and failed to end a practice he derisively calls catch and release, and thousands of undocumented migrants apprehended at the border every month are still being granted routine entry to the United States while their cases are processed by immigration courts.But as the number of migrant families in recent months has overwhelmed the governments detention facilities, the Trump administration has drastically reduced its efforts to ensure the migrants safety after they are released. People working along the border say an ever larger number of families are being released with nowhere to stay, no money, no food and no means of getting to friends and relatives who may be hundreds or thousands of miles away.Federal officials say they are unable to do more to help the migrants, and local governments have often been hesitant to get involved because of cost and potential liability.Stepping into the void has been a growing network of charities, expanding along the border from California to Texas. Dating back well into the Obama administration, when the surge in migrant families began, these churches and other nongovernmental organizations have strung together millions of dollars worth of assistance to help keep migrants off the streets and speed their reunion with family members in the United States.The government isnt doing anything  its been a total make-it-up-as-we-go thing, said Kevin Malone, one of the founders of the San Diego Rapid Response Network, a consortium of faith-based nonprofits in the area. People are working 24 hours a day trying to make this happen. Everyone is strapped.While there has never been a good solution to the issue of what to do with migrants after they are released by immigration agents, recent steps by the Trump administration have exacerbated the situation.Undocumented migrants are held initially at Border Patrol and ICE facilities as their claims for asylum are registered. Previously, government agents would help coordinate plans for their release, contacting family members in American cities and helping secure transportation, even sometimes paying for bus tickets. When charity-operated shelters were full, government agencies sometimes held them a little longer, until they could be transferred.Those practices, known collectively as safe release, ended in October, according to a statement from ICE, because the agency has become overwhelmed by the number of migrants it has to process.Part of the problem, government officials say, is that the courts have established a limit of 20 days for holding migrant children in detention, and the government has a very limited number of detention facilities that can handle both adults and children. An earlier attempt to detain them separately was struck down by the courts and rescinded. Waiting to coordinate releases with charity shelters can result in migrant families being held in detention for too long, officials say.After decades of inaction by Congress, the government remains severely constrained in its ability to detain and promptly remove families with no legal basis to remain in the U.S., the agency said. To mitigate the risk of holding family units past the time frame allotted to the government, ICE has curtailed reviews of post-release plans from families apprehended along the southwest border.Yet those now trying to help the migrants say the government has abandoned its moral responsibility to make sure they are released safely.Under President Obama, the government also had no infrastructure to provide services to newly released migrants; instead it relied on a cooperative relationship with private shelter operators. Now, the shelter operators say, that cooperation has become fraught.Some charity networks have had to quickly become experts in refugee aid in American border towns. They provide showers, nutrition and clean clothes. Many guests, as the volunteers call the migrants, arrive hungry, sick or traumatized. They need fresh diapers for their infants and clean clothes for their older children.The sole shelter in San Diego, run by Jewish Family Service of San Diego, has processed nearly 5,000 asylum applicants since it began operating two months ago. It was built on a wing and a prayer, according to Mr. Malone, and has had to move five times to find adequate space. Newly arrived migrants are provided with austere blue cots, portable showers and donated bread and fruit. They are also screened for illnesses.Kate Clark, the director of immigration services at Jewish Family Service, said the organization stepped in nine weeks ago when it learned migrants were being dumped at the border. But despite Californias political leaders talking about being receptive to migrants, every single night, our ability to ensure that none of the migrants are sleeping on the street is questionable, because of the capacity of our shelters, Ms. Clark said.Their operating costs run between $350,000 and $400,000 a month, largely raised by faith organizations and a GoFundMe account. Still, on days when 100 or more refugees are dropped off, they have little option, because of capacity constraints, other than to turn away families and leave them homeless.Its been a difficult couple of years, but theres never been anything like this, said Etleva Bejko, the director of refugee services at the organization.The charities have also had to learn how to cope with the illnesses that migrants can develop during the difficult journey from Central America, which many make on buses and on foot.Marcela Wash, a registered nurse who has helped treat migrants in San Diego, said that many arrive dehydrated and in various states of medical distress. Rashes, scabies, and respiratory infections have been extremely common, she said. She estimated that 80 percent of the women she saw had lice.Their journeys were hard, of course, but many of these things they caught either at a shelter in Tijuana or in detention, she said.Once migrants are healthy enough to travel, the shelter pays to transport them to join relatives wherever they are in the country, while their cases proceed in court.Some border towns have a more established base of nonprofit assistance for migrants, but they too have seen demands grow in recent months.In El Paso, the Annunciation House has coordinated migrant releases with ICE for years. The migrants typically stay for a few days at the charitys main building or at one of nearly two dozen churches, hotels and other sites that are part of its shelter network. In recent months, the charity has been assisting about 2,200 migrants a week in El Paso.On a recent afternoon, the shelters headquarters, a red brick building about a mile from the border, bustled with activity, part migrant dormitory, part cafeteria and part triage center. Upstairs, a worker holding bundles of laundry walked past family dorm rooms with bunk beds, as the aroma of a dinner being prepared filled the halls. Downstairs, migrant families waiting for a ride to the bus station kept busy by helping to unload a UPS truck parked outside. A new batch of donations had arrived, to add to the towers of Amazon boxes full of clothing and other goods that people around the country had donated.The cost of these operations can be crushing. In just two Texas border regions  the El Paso and McAllen areas  several Catholic groups, charities and local governments have spent roughly $2 million in recent years on migrant relief efforts.On Friday, Ruben Garcia, the director of Annunciation House, was preparing to pay for several rooms at a hotel for the next seven days to handle an overflow of migrants from their shelter. The tab came to about $14,000. Depending on the number of migrants ICE releases, the shelters hotel expenses can climb as high as $150,000 a month.Bureaucracy and politics can tie up more significant investments at the local level. Mr. Malone, the executive director of the San Diego Organizing Project, said San Diego municipal and county officials have suggested to him they have been waiting for the state to officially declare a crisis to lend a hand. He presumed that had to do with the bottom line.It became just a bunch of people pointing fingers, said Mr. Malone. And at the end of the day, the other question was, Who is going to pay the check? Thats the real reason that no one talked about.The California Department of Social Services gave the shelter $500,000, but the money could only be used for case management, including intake, registration and know your rights orientations. It could not be used for most of the shelters operating costs, or for transportation costs for the migrants, one of the primary needs. San Diego County has provided medical guidance and nursing and support staff.We want to help prevent a crisis, Mr. Malone said. Its been our crisis, and Ive been telling them, soon its going to be yours.Gov. Gavin Newsoms office did not immediately respond to requests for comment.The city of McAllen, Tex., which has seen the largest number of migrant families during the recent surge, has contributed $517,000 since 2014 toward a relief effort run largely by Catholic Charities.In El Paso, city leaders were forced to act after federal officials made a series of unannounced nighttime releases of hundreds of migrants during Christmas week. The city officials put migrants on municipal buses to keep them warm, took them to shelter sites and coordinated the response with the local Office of Emergency Management. El Paso officials were told that none of the cost would be reimbursed by the federal government.Its kind of hard to ask the federal government for emergency relief when theyre creating the problem to begin with, Dee Margo, the mayor of El Paso, said at a recent City Council meeting.Mr. Garcia, who runs Annunciation House, said that in October, for the first time since 2014 that he could remember, there were several releases of migrants onto the streets of El Paso without any coordination.I started getting calls from the police department, and everybody and their grandmother was calling me to figure out what was going on, he said. I wish to God you could get into one of their offices to ask them, What in the world were you thinking when you did that? What was the objective?Jose Del Real reported from San Diego and Manny Fernandez reported from El Paso. Mitchell Ferman contributed reporting from McAllen, Tex.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Paulina VillegasTIJUANA  Life in Tijuanas largest migrant shelter has begun to take on the familiar rhythms and sounds of a Central American neighborhood: Early in the morning, adults rise and get ready to go to work. Children dress for school. Mothers gather huge bundles of dirty clothes for the days wash. Vendors hawk coffee.We are getting used to this life, said Norma Prez, 40, who left Honduras in a migrant caravan bound for the United States about two months ago with her 5-year-old son.For weeks, they walked from Central America up to the Mexican border with the United States, fleeing poverty and violence. All along the way, President Trump described the migrants as a danger, as invaders trying to crash their way into the United States. But they didnt stop their trek north.When they arrived at the border, Tijuana was not ready for them. The conditions were deplorable, and the migrants were surprised they would not be able to apply for asylum right away. Twice, groups of migrants approached the border fence and were repelled by border patrol agents using tear gas and pepper spray.But now, life for many of the new arrivals has settled down.Mexicos new president, Andrs Manuel Lpez Obrador, has begun to make good on promises to create alternatives to immigration, and he has already rolled out a plan to increase wages along the United States-Mexico border.And the migrants themselves have begun to create a sense of community in the shelters here, like the citys largest, known as El Barretal. They said they have no intention of turning back.Mr. Trump should personally go to Honduras so he can see with his own eyes that we simply cant go back, that there are no jobs, no companies, nothing, Ms. Prez said.So she is settling in at El Barretal, a concert venue turned into a shelter where tents are lined up in orderly rows on the clean concrete floor. For the thousands of migrants like her in El Barretal and 18 other Tijuana shelters, this is home  for now.As she waits for her chance to apply for asylum in the United States, Ms. Prez has decided to apply for a temporary humanitarian visa in Mexico. That will let her find a job in Tijuana and support herself and her child for as long as necessary, she said.Rodolfo Figueroa, an official with the National Immigration Institute, a government agency, said most of the migrants who arrived in Tijuana with the caravan and who applied for humanitarian visas have been approved. In total, 2,200 visas have been awarded in little over a month, he said. About 1,300 migrants have either been deported or voluntarily returned to their home countries, he added.Early on a typical morning in the El Barretal shelter, migrants who already hold a temporary Mexican visa head to work at a nearby market as meat and poultry vendors. Others make their way to jobs as truck drivers, construction workers or laborers in the citys electronics manufacturing plants.The shelters manager, Leonardo Nery, said the number of people living there had dropped from 3,000 a month ago to around 1,000 as some migrants found their own living arrangements in town. Others have crossed over to the United States or returned home, he said.Around 10 a.m., loudspeakers inside El Barretal announced that buses sent by the Mexican federal government had arrived to take anyone interested in Mexican humanitarian visas to an immigration office. The same voice reminded migrants to gather any trash and place it in the available cans.Around noon on most days, English classes start inside a small white tent with bright blue carpets covering the concrete floor. Puzzle pieces are spread on tables, along with drawings and crayons. Posters with names of colors hang on the walls.Darwin Bardales, an 18-year-old Honduran, has been working as a volunteer in the shelters English school.It feels good to do something for the others, especially the kids, he said. After all, we are all in the same vulnerable situation.The children usually take classes in English and Spanish, learning to read, to color and to eat healthy foods. This Friday, the classes got a late start: The arrival of donated teddy bears and piatas had the childrens full attention until a female voice boomed from the loudspeaker.Hello everybody, its your teacher! the voice said. Its time for class, kids!Adult migrants scattered around the camp cheered in response.Food is cooked and distributed both by private aid groups and by Mexican marines twice a day  rice, soup and sandwiches. It is a bare-bones existence, but friendships have developed and at least one wedding took place in a downtown shelter.Early on Friday, Jos Daniel Castro, 44, was already busy managing what has become the shelters corner shop, where he sells cigarettes, potato candy, soup and other basics around the clock.Mr. Castro left Honduras in mid-October. Now he buys supplies in Tijuana every morning, and he earns about $20 a day reselling them  enough to buy his own food, he said. Having been deported from the United States three times, he plans to stay in Mexico indefinitely, working as a vendor, he said.I can work here and make a little money, he said. That is already more than I can say about back home. In the end, all we wanted was to work and help our loved ones back home.Taracio Prez stood nearby holding bottles of soda, hoping for customers.We are fighting, and hustling, said Mr. Prez, who also scrubs floors in a downtown Tijuana restaurant. The dream was and is the United States. But it has all become so difficult and dangerous for us that the best thing to do is work while we wait for things to get better.Their first few days in Tijuana last November were chaotic, and a bitter disappointment, migrants said. The Trump administration had limited the number of asylum applicants that could be seen in a day, separated parents from their children, sent troops to patrol the frontier  and even, starting last month, shut down the federal government in a bid to get funding for a border wall.Housed initially in an open-air sports complex, the migrants saw a torrential downpour turn the ground to mud around their makeshift tents. Children started to get sick and adults grew dispirited.But to many, those hardships felt temporary  and less threatening than the conditions they had left at home. And life at El Barretal is a definite step up from those first, soaking days.Elisabeth Ponce, 38, was putting the last touches on her makeup before she started her days work. She came from Honduras and now has a job inside the shelter, handing out toiletries, medicine and other basic supplies.She fled Honduras, like so many others, fearing for her life after being threatened by criminal gangs. Joining the caravan was a drastic decision: It meant leaving behind her four children and venturing outside her country for the first time, knowing she had no one to help her if she ever got to the United States.Now she knows she may never get the asylum she is applying for, and that crossing illegally is dangerous. But she remains resolute.I am going to try, regardless, she said.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Matt StevensA federal judge on Sunday granted a request by more than a dozen states to temporarily block the Trump administration from putting into effect new rules that would make it easier for employers to deny women health insurance coverage for contraceptives.Contraception is covered by the Affordable Care Act as a preventive health service, something employers and insurers are generally required to provide at no charge. But the Trump administration developed rules to allow employers to opt out of the mandate if they had religious or moral objections.A version of those rules was stymied by the courts in 2017, so the administration issued a new set of rules in November, which had been scheduled to take effect on Monday.However, the judge, Haywood S. Gilliam Jr. of the United States District Court in Oakland, Calif., granted a request by 13 states and the District of Columbia for a preliminary injunction, writing that the new rules are nearly identical to the ones that he had previously blocked.The plaintiffs, he wrote, had done enough to bolster their claim that the religious exemption and the moral exemption sought by the Trump administration were not in accordance with the Affordable Care Act.After Judge Gilliam blocked the initial rules, the Trump administration appealed. Last month the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit upheld the District Courts ruling but limited the injunctions scope.With that ruling in mind, Judge Gilliam made clear that the preliminary injunction he granted on Sunday bars enforcement in only the states that sued.The Court fully recognizes that limiting the scope of this injunction to the plaintiff states means that women in other states are at risk of losing access to cost-free contraceptives when the final rules take effect, he wrote in Sundays order.States had also argued they would suffer economic harm as a result of the rules because they would have had to provide contraceptive coverage or pay for medical treatment and social services for more women with unintended pregnancies.Judge Gilliam agreed, writing they had shown that they are likely to suffer irreparable harm as a result of this violation, that the balance of hardships tips sharply in their favor, and that the public interest favors granting the injunction.In a statement, Xavier Becerra, the attorney general of California, which is listed as the lead plaintiff in the case, said: The law couldnt be clearer  employers have no business interfering in womens health care decisions.Todays court ruling stops another attempt by the Trump administration to trample on womens access to basic reproductive care, he said. Its 2019, yet the Trump administration is still trying to roll back womens rights. Our coalition will continue to fight to ensure women have access to the reproductive health care they are guaranteed under the law.Mr. Becerras office suggested in its statement that access to cost-free birth control for millions of women and their families was at stake. A regulatory impact analysis of the administrations new rules estimated that no more than 126,400 women of childbearing age would have been affected, court documents said.No American should be forced to violate his or her own conscience in order to abide by the laws and regulations governing our healthcare system, said Caitlin Oakley, a spokeswoman for the Department of Health and Human Services, the lead defendant in the case. The final rules affirm the Trump Administrations commitment to upholding the freedoms afforded all Americans under our Constitution.In court documents opposing the request for an injunction, lawyers for the Justice Department argued that the agencies involved reasonably exercised their rule-making authority to protect a narrow class of sincere religious and moral objectors from being forced to facilitate practices that conflict with their beliefs.As part of the Affordable Care Act, the Obama administration said preventive health services included all methods of contraception approved for women by the Food and Drug Administration.But under rules issued in October 2017, the Trump administration expanded exemptions from the contraceptive coverage mandate, allowing employers to opt out if they had religious or moral objections. The moves were meant to help President Trump carry out a promise he made about not allowing people of faith to be targeted, bullied or silenced anymore.The Trump administrations revised rules, published in November 2018, said that employers could obtain an exemption if they objected to some or all forms of contraception based on their sincerely held religious beliefs or moral convictions. Those rules also emphasized that female employees could obtain contraceptives at family-planning clinics as an alternative to seeking them through health insurance.Last month, the five states that opposed the initial rules  California, Delaware, Maryland, New York and Virginia  filed a second complaint over the revised rules, which was joined by Connecticut, Hawaii, Illinois, Minnesota, North Carolina, Rhode Island, Vermont, Washington State and the District of Columbia.Because of the injunction Judge Gilliam ordered on Sunday, none of those states will need to comply with the Trump administrations expanded exemptions until the case is resolved.Robert Pear contributed reporting.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Choe Sang-HunSEOUL, South Korea  North Korea on Saturday escalated its attempt to create a rift between South Korea and the United States, as Washington sent mixed signals over whether it would tighten or relax sanctions on the North.Ever since the summit meeting between the Norths leader, Kim Jong-un, and President Trump in Hanoi, Vietnam, late last month abruptly ended without a deal, North Korea has ceaselessly urged South Korea to distance itself from the United States and to push ahead with joint economic projects that have been held back by American-led United Nations sanctions.North Koreas official trade has been devastated by international sanctions imposed since 2016. The country has tried to circumvent them by importing refined fuel or exporting coal through ship-to-ship transfers on the high seas, a move banned under United Nations sanctions. It has also sought to undermine the sanctions by boosting economic cooperation with South Korea.President Moon Jae-in of South Korea remains eager to boost inter-Korean economic ties, raising fears at home and abroad that he may steer his government away from international efforts to enforce sanctions against the North. But in reality, Mr. Moons hands are tied unless the United States and North Korea reach an agreement on denuclearizing the North and Washington helps to ease sanctions.On Saturday, DPRK Today, a North Korean government-run website, accused Mr. Moons government of reneging on its promise to improve inter-Korean ties and giving priority to cooperation with a foreign force over cooperation among the Korean nation.The South Korean authorities behavior is deeply deplorable, it said. The only things the South will get from cooperating with the U.S. will be a deepening subordination, humiliation and shame.North Korean state media has been issuing similar messages in recent days, even denigrating Mr. Moons efforts to mediate talks between his American boss and North Korea, and advising Mr. Moons government to throw its policy in a garbage can.Mr. Moon suffered another slap in the face when the North abruptly withdrew its staff from a joint inter-Korean liaison office on Friday.The Souths authorities cant do anything without approval or instruction from the United States, so how do they think they can be a mediator or facilitator? the North Korean website Meari said on Friday. They should know their place.Mr. Moon has dedicated his diplomatic resources to facilitating dialogue between Washington and Pyongyang, and has promoted building peace on the Korean Peninsula as his main policy goal. But his mediators role has run into a wall since the breakdown of the Hanoi meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim.He faced accusations that he had oversold Mr. Trump on Mr. Kims willingness to give up his nuclear weapons, even as North Korea accused him of working on behalf of Washington. But Mr. Moon remains determined to keep the momentum for diplomacy alive.The Hanoi summit meeting broke down when Mr. Kim insisted that the most punishing United Nations sanctions against his country should be lifted in return for a partial dismantlement of his countrys nuclear program.Before the Hanoi meeting, analysts had feared that Mr. Trump might sign onto a partial denuclearization deal and claim it as a victory. But in the end, he listened to his aides advice and walked away without signing a deal.After the Hanoi meeting, Mr. Trump has continued to reaffirm his good relationship with Mr. Kim and his willingness to make a deal. But the American presidents aides remain firm against lifting sanctions, arguing that it would deprive Washington of its most powerful tool to force North Koreas complete denuclearization.On Thursday, the United States Treasury Department demonstrated Washingtons determination to keep squeezing the North by designating for punitive measures two Chinese shipping companies that had helped North Korea evade sanctions through deceptive methods like ship-to-ship transfers of cargo.South Korea was thrown into confusion after Mr. Trump tweeted that he ordered his government on Friday to withdraw additional large scale sanctions against the North. The tweet was initially taken as overruling the Treasurys announcement the day before.But United States officials later explained that Mr. Trump had been referring to additional North Korea sanctions that were under consideration but not yet formally issued.President Trump likes Chairman Kim, and he doesnt think these sanctions will be necessary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, told reporters.That raised hopes among Mr. Moons domestic supporters, who took Mr. Trumps latest move as a sign that Washington did not want to antagonize North Korea with new sanctions. During a news conference in Hanoi immediately after his meeting with Mr. Kim, Mr. Trump said he didnt want to talk about increasing sanctions partly because there were a lot of great people in North Korea that have to live also.By withdrawing additional sanctions against North Korea, President Trump showed his firm will to continue dialogue to realize the denuclearization of North Korea, Lee Hae-sik, a spokesman of Mr. Moons governing Democratic Party, told reporters on Saturday.But the main opposition Liberty Korea Party said that Mr. Moon has been used as a pawn by Mr. Kim and had ended up creating a fission in the alliance with Washington.President Moon Jae-in and his Blue House still dont grasp the reality and have a delusional belief that he is a mediator or facilitator, Jun Hee-kyung, a spokeswoman for the opposition party, said in a statement.By dropping North Korea-related sanctions, Mr. Trump was trying to defuse growing tensions between Washington and Pyongyang after the Hanoi breakdown, said Harry J. Kazianis, director of Korean studies at the Washington-based Center for the National Interest.Recently, Vice Foreign Minister Choe Son-hui of North Korea threatened to suspend negotiations with Washington and said that Mr. Kim would soon decide whether to resume nuclear and missile tests, which it has not carried out in more than a year.Trumps canceling out of sanctions might have been a bid to get North Korea to change its thinking, Mr. Kazianis said.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byletterThere is a time limit on President Trumps tenure, but Brexit has no recall date, a reader says.To the Editor:Re E.U. Pushes Back Britains Exit Date, but Chaos Still Looms (news article, March 22):We should appreciate that Brexit is Britains equivalent of our electing Donald Trump, only much worse. In both instances, a hard core of frustrated, resentful but highly motivated voters used their vote to send a message to what they regarded as out-of-touch elites in Washington, London or Brussels.In the United States, dangerous and deplorable as the result has been, there is an automatic recall date on the package of hopefully 2020, and, at worst, 2024. With Brexit, there is no recall date, and the result will likely be the ultimate diminution of Britain as a world political and economic power.Steven BavariaNorwalk, Conn.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byPor Albinson LinaresBuen da, bienvenido al boletn diario de The New York Times en Espaol. Si an no ests suscrito, puedes darte de alta en este enlace.Tienes sugerencias? Escrbenos a esta direccin. Jair Bolsonaro ya es el nuevo presidente de Brasil, pero el pas empez a cambiar antes. Ayer se celebr la toma de posesin de Jair Bolsonaro, el legislador de extrema derecha que gan ampliamente las elecciones presidenciales en octubre. Sin embargo, las semanas previas estuvieron signadas por el impulso de propuestas que se alejan del pasado reciente, como polticas ms flexibles en el control de armas, el incremento de la deforestacin en el Amazonas, una aproximacin diplomtica con Estados Unidos y los ataques a la prensa.Existe una incertidumbre considerable acerca de cunto se parecer el presidente Bolsonaro al candidato tosco, indignado e intransigente que domin las elecciones con sus promesas de desmantelar la cultura de corrupcin y utilizar medios draconianos para restaurar la seguridad. En este trabajo repasamos los cambios ms importantes que ya estn en marcha en Brasil. El presidente de Per evala medidas de emergencia frente a la remocin de fiscales clave  en el caso Odebrecht. El mandatario peruano Martn Vizcarra dijo el martes que su gobierno tomar acciones frente a la remocin de dos fiscales centrales en la investigacin de sobornos de la constructora brasilea Odebrecht y reiter su rechazo enrgico a la decisin, tomada sorpresivamente por el fiscal de la Nacin en vsperas del Ao Nuevo.Todos tenemos que trabajar para combatir la corrupcin. Nosotros como poder Ejecutivo somos los que estamos decididos a ello y la poblacin lo sabe, as que no los vamos a defraudar y menos empezando el ao 2019, dijo Vizcarra en un encuentro con los medios. Rebeldes zapatistas se oponen al nuevo gobierno de Mxico. El movimiento zapatista pronunci duras crticas contra Andrs Manuel Lpez Obrador, el nuevo presidente del pas, y prometieron enfrentarlo.Le estn haciendo caso a aquel que su nombre no lo quiero decir, mejor le digo tramposo, maoso; aquel que est en el poder dijo el subcomandante Moiss el 1 de enero durante la celebracin del 25 aniversario del levantamiento armado de 1994. Nosotros aqu seguimos. Cada vez vienen como a turistear, pero la miseria, la desigualdad y la injusticia no son para turistear, dijo el vocero, quien reiter la oposicin del zapatismo a algunos de los grandes proyectos de Lpez Obrador, como el Tren Maya, que se desarrollara entre las playas de Cancn y las ruinas de Palenque.Con motivo del 25 aniversario del levantamiento zapatista recomendamos la lectura de este reportaje de Alan Riding, que en 1994 analiz para The New York Times las implicaciones del surgimiento de ese movimiento poltico.La escogencia hoy no es entre revolucin o imperialismo, sino entre autoritarismo y democracia. Y surge para m otra eleccin insoslayable, entre izquierda democrtica e izquierda autoritaria.El escritor nicaragense Sergio Ramrez reflexiona sobre la historia de los movimientos antimperialistas de Amrica Latina y su deriva autoritaria en pases como Cuba, Venezuela y Nicaragua. Este es el primer ensayo de Revolucin 60, una serie que conmemora el sexagsimo aniversario de la Revolucin cubana y su papel en Amrica Latina y sus relaciones con Estados Unidos.Las imgenes de la caravana migrante se han multiplicado en los ltimos meses. Sin embargo, no suelen reflejar las historias personales de quienes han llegado a Tijuana, Mxico, con el sueo de reescribir sus historias al otro lado de la frontera. En este trabajo de Jos Antonio Vargas y Russell Monk podemos conocer los problemas y las aspiraciones de un grupo de migrantes que han huido de la pobreza y la violencia en Centroamrica para buscar una vida mejor en Estados Unidos. Los muros fronterizos que ya separan a Mxico y Estados Unidos. La frontera entre ambos pases mide ms de 3000 kilmetros y a lo largo de ella existen barreras naturales como el ro Bravo y el desierto de Arizona y tambin lmites artificiales. Qu significa para esa regin la promesa de Donald Trump de construir un muro? Qu tipos de vallas han sido instaladas en el territorio? Cmo se vigila la frontera? En este mapa interactivo respondemos algunas de estas preguntas. La extrema derecha alemana lanza un rostro ms amigable pero mantiene sus ideas radicales. Generacin Identitaria es un movimiento de jvenes pertenecientes a la extrema derecha que varios servicios de inteligencia europeos tienen en la mira. Con tcticas que recuerdan a partidos radicales del pasado, buscan darle un gran cambio de imagen a la extrema derecha.La utopa del multiculturalismo era un experimento, pero fracas, dice Martin Sellner, un carismtico lder austriaco del movimiento. Como el comunismo, el cosmopolitismo ha fallado. El arte de cazar con guilas en Mongolia. Usar guilas entrenadas para cazar zorros, liebres e incluso lobos es una tradicin para los kazajos del Alti en Mongolia, quienes consideran el vnculo entre el ave y el humano tan fuerte como el de padres e hijos.Despus de la muerte de mi abuelo, quera continuar con sus costumbres, coment Zamanbol, una joven cazadora de 14 aos que forma parte de una generacin de jvenes nmadas que estn adoptando costumbres centenarias, mientras buscan una conexin con sus races y la naturaleza en un mundo transformado por la tecnologa.de la tectnica de placas es uno de los grandes avances cientficos de nuestro tiempo, junto con la teora de la evolucin de Darwin y la teora de la relatividad de Einstein. La capa ms externa de la Tierra est fragmentada en piezas gigantes que se deslizan y permiten el reciclamiento de la corteza terrestre, pero los gelogos se enfrentan a los vacos de conocimiento de la teora que es la piedra angular de su profesin.Cada vez es ms evidente que se necesita la tectnica de placas para mantener la vida, afirma Aubrey Zerkle, geoqumica de la Universidad de Saint Andrews en Escocia. Si no hubiera una forma de reciclar el material entre el manto y la corteza, todos los elementos que son indispensables para la vida, como el carbono, el nitrgeno, el fsforo y el oxgeno, se pegaran a las rocas y se quedaran ah. Farout, el objeto ms lejano del sistema solar. Un grupo de astrnomos descubri un punto rosado de luz que, segn infieren, se trata de una bola de hielo de 483 kilmetros de dimetro que orbita a casi 17.700 millones de kilmetros del Sol, una distancia tres veces ms lejana que a la que se ubica Plutn.Los cientficos le dieron el nombre de Farout, que quiere decir remoto, y calculan que completar un viaje alrededor del Sol le toma por lo menos mil aos. Los investigadores creen que podra ser lo suficientemente grande para que la gravedad lo jale hasta adquirir una forma redonda y cumpla con la definicin de planeta enano, la misma categora que incluye al asteroide Ceres y a Plutn. Una mano robtica que toca el piano con inteligencia humana. Cientficos presentaron una mano artificial capaz de tocar el piano sin motores individuales, de modo que funciona casi como una mano humana que puede saltarse octavas, dar golpecitos y deslizar el pulgar para interpretar algo de jazz, msica clsica o villancicos.Vamos ms all de considerar las notas como una mera lista de instrucciones, dice Josie Hughes, investigadora del Departamento de Ingeniera de la Universidad de Cambridge, quien estuvo a cargo del desarrollo de la mano. Tocar el piano es un arte. Queremos introducir esa complejidad, profundidad y maestra en el comportamiento de nuestro robot.Gracias por leernos en esta primera semana del 2019. Maana no te pierdas nuestra seleccin de artculos sobre deportes y medioambiente.Tambin puedes compartir este boletn con tus amigos, familiares, seres queridos y no tan queridos. Se pueden registrar en este enlace.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Richard SandomirMeshulam Riklis, a financier who aggressively used debt to acquire companies before that tactic became commonplace  but who was best known beyond business circles for his marriage to the singer and actress Pia Zadora  died on Friday in Tel Aviv. He was 95.His daughter Marcia Riklis confirmed the death, in a hospital.Mr. Riklis, who was born in Turkey and raised in Israel, was a brash financial alchemist and corporate raider who built empires out of office equipment companies, retailers like the McCrory-McLellan chain and the Lerner Shops, a variety of outfits like BVD, Playtex, Faberg and the liquor distiller Schenley, and the Riviera Hotel in Las Vegas. He also financed the start-up of Carnival Cruise Line with his friend Ted Arison.Starting in the 1950s, his guiding principle was to use debt to acquire companies  money that he borrowed that would limit his financial exposure. In his 1966 masters thesis at Ohio State University, he called this approach the effective non-use of cash  in other words, leveraged buyouts, often fueled with high-risk junk bonds.If you are a Rockefeller or a hotel owner, you build an empire based on the companys worth, he told Business Week in 1974 when the magazine asked about his mounting debt. If you are Meshulam Riklis, you build an empire using every possible trick.But he was not always successful  some of his companies filed for bankruptcy  and some critics say he stripped companies for profit.Riklis has gutted so many companies over the years that I call him Freddy Krueger, the Bondholders Nightmare on Wall Street, the financial columnist Allan Sloan wrote in Newsday in 1992. He is famous for laughing at the bondholders and lenders he victimized.After divorcing his first wife, Judith (Stern) Riklis, he married Ms. Zadora in 1977  when he was 53 and she was 24. He turned to molding her entertainment career, which was modest at the time. He doted on her, financed a nightclub act and some of her films, and put her in a commercial for the aperitif Dubonnet, one of his properties.His focus on Ms. Zadora brought him to the attention of tabloids and provided him with a type of fame unlike what he had experienced on the business pages.I am known as Mr. Pia Zadora, he told The Los Angeles Times in 1986. Why? Because I got what I want.His devotion to Ms. Zadora included inviting Golden Globe Awards voters to private screenings of Butterfly (1982), a film he produced for her, and promoted her candidacy in a media campaign  all for someone considered a lightweight competing with the likes of Kathleen Turner, Howard E. Rollins Jr. and Elizabeth McGovern for best new star of the year in a motion picture.When Ms. Zadora won the award  a shock in Hollywood and beyond  it was assumed that Mr. Riklis had somehow engineered her victory, although he and the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, which runs the Golden Globes, denied the accusation.In 1990 Mr. Riklis and Ms. Zadora tore down Pickfair, the Beverly Hills estate once owned by the film stars Mary Pickford and Douglas Fairbanks, to build another mansion. Two years later they were ordered by a Manhattan judge to pay $751,000 in back rent for their apartment at Trump Tower to Donald J. Trump.They divorced the next year.Pia didnt hurt his reputation as a businessman, Marcia Riklis said in a telephone interview. It was quite the opposite. He created her celebrity and enjoyed it. And he enjoyed being known as Mr. Zadora while he was still working on his business deals.Mr. Riklis was born on Dec. 2, 1923, in Istanbul, while his parents, Pinhas and Batya, were on their way from Odessa, Russia, to Palestine, which at the time was under the British Mandate. As a child, he excelled in math and Bible studies; while in high school he was in charge of the physical fitness program of the youth battalion of Haganah, the main Jewish military organization of Palestine before Israeli independence.After serving with the British Army in Europe during World War II, he returned to Israel, where he married Ms. Stern, his high school sweetheart. The couple and their daughter, Simona, immigrated to the United States and settled in New Mexico, where he briefly attended college before moving to Columbus, Ohio. He graduated from Ohio State University with a bachelors degree in mathematics.The family then moved again, to Minneapolis, where he taught in a Hebrew school. But he wanted to earn more money than he did as a teacher  and wanting to work in finance, he found a job as a junior securities analyst at the investment firm Piper Jaffray & Hopwood and continued to teach for a while.In an ambitious early deal in the mid-1950s, Mr. Riklis raised an investment pool of $750,000 from friends and clients that was used to buy a watch company in Cincinnati. He did not contribute his own money. I raised it, me, Riklis, with an accent, he told The Los Angeles Times in 1986. A Hebrew-school teacher in Minneapolis, Minn., where I was the only Jew working for the firm.Proud of his Jewish heritage  if he had an early ambition, his daughter said, it was to fight for Israeli independence  he donated about $190 million to Israeli charities and pro-Israel causes, his third wife, Tali Sinai Riklis, told an Israeli newspaper in 2015.In addition to his wife and daughter, Mr. Riklis is survived by two sons, Ira Riklis and Kristofer Zadora Riklis; another daughter, Kady Zadora Riklis; six grandchildren; 11 great-grandchildren; and a sister, Aviva Naaman. His daughter Simona, who was known as Mona Ackerman, died in 2012.Mr. Rikliss experience at the Riviera Hotel, which he bought in 1973, was far from perfect. He felt disrespected by the licensing hearings and the Securities and Exchange Commission, which showed him photographs of him getting off elevators with the mobster Meyer Lansky and asked if they were in business together. They were not and they had no other proof, he said. In 1983, the Riviera s poor finances led to a Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing.But as he told The Los Angeles Times, owning a hotel and casino gave him a little perspective about entertainment.Pias 10 times better than Liza Minnelli, he said, comparing Ms. Zadoras nightclub act to Ms. Minnellis. But Lizas a great showgirl. I know. She worked for me at the Riviera.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Jonathan Martin, Maggie Haberman and Alexander BurnsWASHINGTON  After more than six years of less-than-heartfelt endorsements, a bitter parting of ways and a momentary rapprochement, the relationship between Mitt Romney and President Trump returned Wednesday to where it began: awkward, transactional and lingering uneasily between friend and foe. One day after publishing a biting critique in The Washington Post that Mr. Trump has not risen to the mantle of the office, Mr. Romney declined to endorse the presidents re-election, saying he wanted to consider alternatives in 2020.But Mr. Romney also made clear that, while he is willing to confront the president like few other Republican lawmakers, he had little appetite to spend his first months as Utahs junior senator acting the part of Mr. Trumps critic in chief.I dont intend to be a daily commentator, he said in an interview on CNN, repeatedly declining to escalate his attacks on the president and explaining that he would speak out against Mr. Trump only on issues of great significance.Mr. Romneys restraint in the interview was notably different from the tone he struck in his essay in The Post, in which he wrote that Mr. Trumps presidency made a deep descent in December after his abrupt announcement that he would withdraw American troops from Syria, and the departure of Defense Secretary Jim Mattis.Mr. Romney got a taste of how lonely it can be in Mr. Trumps Republican Party to speak out against the president, as few lawmakers sided with their new colleague Wednesday and one senator even set up a conference call with reporters to criticize him. It was a revealing illustration of the loyalty Mr. Trump still commands even as he enters a perilous stretch of his presidency.But if Mr. Romney later seemed as if he wanted to ease away from his essays condemnation, Mr. Trump was, at least by his standards, somewhat muted in his counterattack against the man he once belittled for walking like a penguin.Early on Wednesday, Mr. Trump noted that the former Massachusetts governor lost his 2012 presidential bid. I won big, and he didnt, the president tweeted. He should be happy for all Republicans. Be a TEAM player & WIN!And when addressing reporters in the Oval Office on Wednesday afternoon, the president said that if Mr. Romney had been as harsh on former President Barack Obama in their campaign, he would have won the election.Mr. Trumps loyalists responded more ferociously, and out in front was Ronna McDaniel, the chairwoman of the Republican National Committee, who is also Mr. Romneys niece.For an incoming Republican freshman senator to attack @realdonaldtrump as their first act feeds into what the Democrats and media want and is disappointing and unproductive, Ms. McDaniel wrote about her uncle on Twitter.Her attack stunned other members of Mr. Romneys family, with one suggesting she would regret putting her political loyalties over her family.But Mr. Romney declined to respond in kind to her, and the matter only illustrated how awkward this moment is for all parties.This weeks contretemps were just the latest turn in an on-and-off political relationship dating back to Mr. Trumps 2012 endorsement of Mr. Romney at the Trump International Hotel in Las Vegas.Mr. Romney, then a candidate for the presidency, and his wife, Ann, were not thrilled about having to submit to Mr. Trump, who relished the attention but plainly did not have a natural connection with Mr. Romney.Four years later it was Mr. Trump on the ballot, and Mr. Romney unleashed a blistering attack on his character, calling him a fraud, prompting Mr. Trump to call him a choker.But after Mr. Trump won, the two appeared to reach a dtente and even discussed Mr. Romneys taking the secretary of state job over a dinner of frog legs  at the Jean-Georges restaurant in Manhattan.Since then, the two have maintained a relative peace, with Mr. Trump endorsing Mr. Romneys campaign for the Senate last year and Mr. Romney only intermittently confronting the president.But at a moment when a series of investigations have engulfed the White House and Democrats are about to take control of the House, Mr. Romneys broadside this week was a reminder to Mr. Trump that one of his earliest and loudest Republican critics will soon have a high-profile platform in Washington.Sensing the makings of a primary threat to the president, some of his most ardent backers on the Republican National Committee began making the case that the partys rules be changed to ensure Mr. Trumps renomination in 2020.Calling Mr. Romneys attack calculated political treachery, Jevon Williams, the national committeeman from the Virgin Islands, wrote in an email to other members of the R.N.C. that the party should move to protect Mr. Trump by amending party rules to make it harder for a challenger to have his name placed in nomination at the Republicans 2020 convention.And, Mr. Williams wrote, the party should use its winter meeting this month to pass a resolution endorsing Mr. Trump and declaring him the presumptive nominee in 2020.In the CNN interview, Mr. Romney said, Im not running again.But even if he just acts as an occasional critic of the president, Mr. Romney will run into resistance.Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky, viewing Mr. Romneys offensive as an opening to nurture his ties with the media-obsessed Mr. Trump, scheduled an afternoon conference call with reporters to target his soon-to-be colleague.I just dont think the president deserves to have a new senator coming in attacking his character, said Mr. Paul, accusing Mr. Romney of acting holier than thou.Mr. Trumps senior aides were less exercised about Mr. Romneys attack, with one of them noting with pleasure that the president was relatively restrained  and that an overreaction would only reinforce Mr. Romneys criticism.But White House officials were still irritated with Mr. Romney, pointedly noting that they only got a brief heads-up that the essay was coming. It was Ms. McDaniel who informed them about the column, according to a senior White House aide.Mr. Romneys allies said part of the purpose of the column was to give him a document that he can point back to, as an evergreen statement of his general thinking about Mr. Trump, rather than offering critiques in response to every presidential tweet.For his part, though, Mr. Trump has been warily eyeing the arrival of Mr. Romney since well before the essay in The Post.Last fall, Mr. Trump, mindful that Mr. Romney would move quickly to assert himself, asked Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, not to give Mr. Romney a leadership platform. A Republican familiar with the discussion said that Mr. Trump specifically wanted to keep Mr. Romney away from the National Republican Senatorial Committee, the partys campaign arm in Senate races.But even if Mr. Romney gets no formal title with Senate Republicans, Trump aides worry that Mr. Romneys extensive fund-raising network will make it hard for the Republican campaign committee to resist making use of him in the 2020 election cycle.The notion of installing Mr. Romney at the campaign committee was a pet project of his longtime family friend and adviser Spencer Zwick, who raised the idea with donors as a way of carving out a leadership role as an unusually prominent freshman lawmaker.The idea drew at least mild interest from Mrs. Romney, but Mr. Romney was less intrigued and viewed it as a nonstarter for practical reasons, two people briefed on the conversations said. The position is effectively a fund-raising assignment, and another senator, Todd Young of Indiana, got the job.But operating in a formal capacity as a partisan functionary would most likely have required Mr. Romney to stay silent about his disagreements with Mr. Trump, lest he put Republican candidates in the position of having to pick sides between the two men  the sitting president and the best-known Republican senator  on a routine basis.Republican leaders believe that scenario may come to pass even without giving Mr. Romney an official leadership role, as he discovers the enormous megaphone available to him in the halls of CongressBut Mr. Romney said Wednesday that he would not seek to torment Mr. Trump.Just doing things symbolically that hurt somebody that youre opposed to doesnt make any sense, he said.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. President Trump faces tests of his political survival, the U.S. government shutdown has become the countrys longest in history, and the Greek prime minister calls for a confidence vote. Heres the latest: The shift of power in Congress and news reports are combining to confront President Trump with the prospect of a political war for survival that may make the still-unresolved partial government shutdown pale by comparison, our chief White House correspondent writes.News reports: A Times report detailed how, after Mr. Trump fired James Comey as F.B.I. director, the bureau became so concerned by the presidents behavior that investigators took the aggressive step of opening a counterintelligence inquiry into whether he had been working on behalf of Russia. That inquiry was taken over by the special counsel, Robert Mueller, when he was appointed.And The Washington Post first reported that the president had gone to great lengths to conceal his conversations with President Vladimir Putin of Russia over the past two years. Current and former officials told our reporters that this practice has caused anxiety within Mr. Trumps own administration.Congress: Democrats in the House of Representatives might move to subpoena interpreters present at the meetings. And on Tuesday, they will grill former Attorney General William Barr, who has been nominated by Mr. Trump to assume his old office, about his approach to the special counsel. Next month, theyll question Mr. Trumps former personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, and they cautioned Mr. Trump against any attempt to influence or discourage his testimony. The response: Mr. Trump attacked the F.B.I. and its former top officials on Twitter over news of the counterintelligence investigation and denied The Posts report.The partial shutdown is now the longest-ever gap in American government funding, surpassing the previous record of 21 days under the Clinton administration.President Trump is still digging in on his demand for money for a wall at the southern border, though he has backed away from declaring a national emergency to build one  which has been seen as the only way out of the impasse with House Democrats. Meanwhile, a new caravan of migrants is forming in Honduras and promises to further charge the debate.Impact: Heres a visual look at the shutdowns far-reaching consequences for the 800,000 federal workers who are going without pay.Another angle: The British Parliament is all but certain to vote down Prime Minister Theresa Mays Brexit plan on Tuesday, leaving the countrys withdrawal from the E.U. mired in uncertainty. Our journalists examine how the crises afflicting two venerable, historic democracies can affect the whole world. Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras of Greece called for a confidence vote after a coalition partner on the right quit over a proposed pact on Macedonias name.What happened: Days ago, Macedonian lawmakers agreed to officially change their countrys name to the Republic of North Macedonia, in order to end a long-running dispute with Greece and open the door for the small Balkan nations membership in NATO and the E.U. But the deal infuriated the Greek defense minister, prompting him to resign. History: Greece has long effectively blocked Macedonia from NATO, insisting that Macedonians were a Hellenistic people and therefore the name could not be claimed by the Slavic people living in the country today. Many Greeks believe that the new name implies claims to Greek territory, because Greece has a northern region named Macedonia.Whats next? The confidence vote is expected to be held this week, after two days of debate from Tuesday morning.  The deal on the name could go before the Greek Parliament for approval as soon as this month. Boulogne-sur-Mer, Frances largest fishing port, has been spooked by a surge in attempted and even successful thefts of fishing boats. The culprits are migrant smugglers. They are increasingly secreting migrants, mainly Iranians who can afford the high costs, across the English Channel to Britain in small vessels, some of them stolen. Numbers: Last year, there were 78 crossings and attempts to cross the Channel, involving a total of about 500 migrants  10 times as many as in 2017. More than half made it across. No one is known to have died so far, but there is fear that a fatality is inevitable. Impact: The relatively small numbers notwithstanding, headlines and anti-immigration politicians in Britain are calling it a crisis. Some French fishermen are vowing to sit up all night in their boats, cradling their guns. Huawei: The Chinese telecommunications giant fired an employee who was arrested in Poland on charges of spying for Beijing, the latest diplomatic tangle for the company after the arrest of its chief financial officer, Meng Wanzhou, in Canada last year.Poland: The left-leaning mayor of Gdansk was stabbed in the heart on Sunday night while he spoke at a fund-raiser by an assailant with political grievances, officials said.Afghanistan: Dozens of boys are imprisoned in Kabul as national security threats, many of them accused of trying to become suicide bombers. What to do with them when they finish their sentences is a conundrum for the authorities.Nissan: In 1991, the Japanese automaker created a small batch of the quirky Figaro model and never even exported it out of the country. But today, it enjoys immense popularity in Britain.Paris: Four people were killed in a powerful explosion at a bakery that is believed to have been caused by a gas leak.Syria: The U.S. military started withdrawing some equipment as part of President Trumps order to wind down Americas presence there, amid growing confusion and mixed signals over the pullout.Iran: Senior Pentagon officials are afraid that President Trumps hawkish national security adviser, John Bolton, could precipitate a conflict with Iran at a time when Mr. Trump is losing leverage in the Middle East.Saudi Arabia: The young Saudi woman who fled her family and spent a week lobbying for her freedom from Bangkoks international airport arrived safely in Canada, where she was granted asylum. Who is MacKenzie Bezos? A novelist who, as the wife of Jeff Bezos, played an integral part in getting Amazon started. And now, after 25 years of marriage, she could be awarded one of the largest divorce settlements to date.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Start the week with a comforting bowl of Tuscan farro soup.How to be a writer: Theres no shortage of advice from famous authors, from J.K. Rowling to William Faulkner.Never miss another supermoon. Or solar eclipse, or meteor shower. Sync your calendar with the solar system.On Wall Street, its earnings season.Before your eyes glaze over, heres what that means  and why its more interesting than usual.Were about to see how corporate America did in the past three months.Its the first chance for investors to hear from chief executives since the market went haywire in December. A big reason for that sell-off was concern about the economy and corporate profits.In the preseason, Apple warned that fewer people in China were buying iPhones than it would like, and American Airlines said it wasnt getting as much revenue from every passenger as it wanted.Such details help gauge the health of the economy, and thats where the trouble can begin. If too many chief executives start to warn about problems ahead, investors could see their worst fears confirmed  and stocks could start to fall again.Maybe dont check your 401(k) until this is over.Mohammed Hadi, our business news director, wrote todays Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and heres our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byGood Monday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.MNG Enterprises, the owner of one of the largest newspaper businesses in the country, made a $12-per-share offer today for Gannett, the publisher of USA Today and dozens of other publications.The news: The proposal from MNG, which owns 200 publications, to buy Gannett represents a 41 percent premium over the companys closing price at the end of last year. MNG, which has a history of acquiring struggling local papers and cutting costs, has a 7.5 percent stake in Gannett, making it Gannetts largest active shareholder. Gannetts stock price surged in premarket trading after the bid.The back story: Over the past few years, MNG has made several approaches about a deal, only to be rebuffed, the WSJ reported. Gannett, whose shares have dropped in recent years, has been seeking to remake itself. In 2016, it backed off a bid to acquire Tronc, the media company now known as Tribune Publishing.The backlash: MNG, one of the largest newspaper chains in the country, owns about 200 newspapers and publications including The Denver Post and The Orange County Register. Last year, frustrated journalists at The Denver paper criticized its owner, making the case for its survival.In related news: The East Bay Express, an alternative weekly in San Francisco, laid off almost its entire editorial staff on Friday, its publisher said, adding that it would rely instead on freelance writers. And after a challenge from Stephen King, The Portland Press Herald in Maine said it would bring back its local book reviews if the author and his followers brought in 100 new subscriptions. They brought in twice that.____________________________Todays DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Electric vehicles will be a hot topic at the North American International Auto Show in Detroit, which opens to the news media and industry executives today and to the public on Saturday.Automakers are preparing to introduce dozens of electric cars and hybrid vehicles over the next few years, the NYTs Neal Boudette writes. But to sell those cars, they will have to attract a new class of customer:Mainstream consumers may be harder to win over than the wealthy luxury car buyers, hard-core environmentalists and early adopters who have flocked to buy Model 3s and delivered Teslas rapid sales growth. That may be especially true in the middle of the country, because charging stations are more sparse there than on the coasts, where most Tesla models are sold.The longest government shutdown in American history, dragging into its 24th day today, could become a side note in an all-out political war for survival, as President Trump faces intensifying concerns about his relationship with Russia and its president, Vladimir Putin. The NYTs Peter Baker writes:Instead of talks to end the shutdown, the president spent at least part of his weekend defending himself against the suspicions about his affinity for Mr. Putin.In recent days, The Washington Post found that President Trump had repeatedly tried to hide details of his conversations with Mr. Putin. The NYT reported on the F.B.I.s counterintelligence investigation of Mr. Trump, which was initiated after he fired James Comey as F.B.I. director and questioned whether he had been influenced by Russia.Asked in an interview on Fox News on Saturday night if he was a Russian agent, President Trump said it was the most insulting thing Ive ever been asked. He did not issue an explicit denial.The new Democratic House majority has seized on the revelations, adding another pressure point in President Trumps strained relationship with Congress. Negotiations to end the shutdown, at a standstill over President Trumps demand for border wall funding, could end up on the back burner, even as contagion effects seep through the economy. As a result of the shutdown, 800,000 federal workers are either furloughed or working without pay, and many are filing for unemployment benefits. NASA laboratories, Smithsonian museums and other sites in Washington are empty. There are fewer food inspections, longer airport security lines and more trash in those national parks that are still open. Air traffic controllers working without pay in New York on Friday received a pizza delivery from colleagues in Canada. More than 300 small-business loans  or nearly $200 million in capital  are not being approved each day. Contract workers, who will most likely not be reimbursed for unpaid wages, may be especially hard hit. Wall Street deals that require national security reviews or approval from antitrust regulators will have to wait. GoFundMe will refund more than $20 million in donations raised to help fund the border wall. The campaign organizer, Brian Kolfage, had initially promised to return the funds if the effort fell short of its $1 billion goal.This week brings quarterly results from major banks, with Citigroup reporting today, JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo tomorrow, Bank of America and Goldman Sachs on Wednesday and Morgan Stanley on Thursday.The last three months of 2018 were rough for the six financial giants, which lost more than $200 billion in value amid a record stock sell-off. The new year has only intensified nervousness over slowing global growth while providing a steady drumbeat of unimpressive holiday sales, and slashed revenue and profit forecasts.Risk aversion in the market has cramped liquidity, leading to increased warnings about volatility fueled by automated trading programs. And the effect of the 2017 tax overhaul is waning, putting companies in the difficult position of comparing their current lackluster results with their strong performance after the law first went into effect.The cavalcade of data demonstrating Chinas slowing economic growth continues, with the largest drop in exports in two years.Analysts had expected the Chinese government to report a gain in outbound shipments for December. Instead, the dollar value of exports slumped 4.4 percent from a year earlier, as Chinese electronics and other products struggled to excite international consumers.Imports fell 7.6 percent; domestic demand for goods is weakening, with car sales contracting for the first time in more than two decades last year, and sliding 13 percent last month in the sixth straight month of declines.The figures underscored a recent refrain on Wall Street: Chinas powerhouse economic engine is sputtering. Chinas overall trade surplus is at its lowest level since 2013. However, even amid a bitter trade feud with the Trump administration, Chinas surplus with the United States is the largest it has been in more than a decade, with exports from China growing 11.3 percent last year, compared with a 0.7 percent increase in imports from the U.S. But Chinas foreign direct investment in North America and Europe has slumped to a six-year low. American regulators are intensifying their oversight of deals with Chinese companies, and Chinese officials have tightened the flow of funds overseas. Chinese investment in the U.S. fell 83 percent last year, while its investments in Canada surged 80 percent. Foreign companies continue to complain about barriers in China. Applications submitted by Visa and Mastercard to process renminbi payments have been largely ignored by Chinas central bank, according to the FT. Equity markets in Asia and Europe slipped on hearing on of the unexpected contraction in exports.Michael Bloombergs publisher recently released a revised edition of his 1997 book, Bloomberg by Bloomberg, and Andrew notes that it offers some nuggets about the roles of government and philanthropy that could become talking points on the campaign trail if he runs for president in 2020. Philanthropy has traditionally been thought of as an alternative to government  and in some cases, it is. But I also see it as a way to embolden government. There are powerful disincentives working against government innovation, because innovation involves risk, and risk involves the potential for failure. And if theres one thing that scares politicians  not to mention their political advisers  its failure. The second disincentive working against innovation in government is more understandable: fiduciary duty. As an elected official, you are responsible for spending taxpayers dollars wisely, and it can be hard to justify spending the publics money on an untested idea, especially when budgets are already stretched thin. Thats where philanthropy comes in.NBC and Megyn Kelly reached a final agreement on Friday to part ways, nearly three months after she wondered aloud on-air why it was inappropriate for white people to dress up in blackface for Halloween. (NYT)Pacific Gas and Electric Company, which is planning a bankruptcy filing, said its chief executive, Geisha Williams, was stepping down. John Simon, the companys general counsel, will serve as interim chief executive during the search. (NYT)Deals Goldman Sachs has tried to pin the blame for an international multibillion-dollar fraud in Malaysia on a few rogue bankers, but the government of Malaysia is not buying it. (NYT) Viacom, which has been in China for more than two decades but has struggled to grow its presence there, is in talks to sell a majority stake in some of its operations there. (WSJ) LOccitane International, the cosmetics firm, will buy the beauty brand Elemis for around $900 million. (Bloomberg) The Singapore developer CapitaLand agreed to buy two property units from the state investor Temasek Holdings for $4.4 billion, a deal it said would create Asias largest diversified real estate company. (Bloomberg) Anheuser-Busch InBev, the Belgium-based maker of Budweiser, is said to be considering an initial public offering of its Asian operations that could raise more than $5 billion. (Bloomberg)Tech E.U. antitrust regulators have until Feb. 18 to decide whether to approve the merger of the rail operations of Siemens and Alstom, but they must now consider serious doubts from the German government. (Reuters) High-tech farming outside Pittsburgh has given rise to cows in Fitbit-like collars milked by robots, and an automated greenhouse filled with kale and baby carrots. (NYT) Elon Musks SpaceX will lay off roughly 10 percent of its work force, including 577 positions at its headquarters in Southern California. (Bloomberg) MacKenzie Bezos is a novelist and an ambassador for Amazon. Public fascination with her private life has exploded since her divorce was announced. (NYT) Amazon became the largest company in the world by market capitalization this month. Its ascendancy is a reminder that the biggest companies can be toppled. (WSJ) Samsung, hoping to catch up to Chinese rivals such as Xiaomi, will introduce the budget M-series smartphones in India before selling them globally. (Reuters)Politics and policy The British Parliament is set to vote on Prime Minister Theresa Mays Brexit deal tomorrow. (BBC) Will John Bolton, the national security adviser, instigate a conflict with Iran just as President Trump is pulling American troops out of the Middle East? The possibility worries senior Pentagon officials. (NYT) A homegrown disinformation campaign in Alabama led Russian news sources to report: The only Russian bots to meddle in U.S. elections belonged to Democrat-linked experts. (NYT) President Emmanuel Macron of France has begun a three-month initiative to quell unrest in the country while sticking to his economic reform agenda. (Reuters) Marine Le Pen, the leader of the far-right party in France, began a campaign for the European Parliament with an appeal to the yellow vest protest movement. (Reuters)Best of the rest  Larry Fink, the chief executive of BlackRock, the worlds largest money manager, was challenged to push harder on climate-related shareholder resolutions. (FT) Many large hedge funds reported substantial losses in 2018, as stock market declines and interest rate increases created difficulties for the investment industry. (FT) Britain is creating a task force to crack down on fraud, corruption and dirty money. (Reuters) Economists are producing forecasts for the British economy based on an exit treaty, a no-deal Brexit and the possibility of Britain remaining in the European Union. (FT) Coaching contracts negotiated in the past week hint that the N.F.L. is seeking to protect itself from a possible work stoppage in 2021. (ESPN) John Mackey, the chief executive of Whole Foods, told employees the grocery chain had scrapped plans to expand its lower-priced Whole Foods 365 stores. (Yahoo) Mozambiques governing party has been mostly silent since the nations former finance minister and former Credit Suisse bankers were indicted in one of Africas biggest corruption cases. (FT) Sales of gin have soared in Britain. Now, distillers who are eager to avoid market saturation are in search of a global cocktail crowd. (NYT) India surpassed Germany in autos sales, becoming the fourth-largest market in the world. (FT)Thanks for reading! Well see you on Tuesday.Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byInstead of fanning fear, the president should listen to people on both sides of the border.By Roger CohenOpinion ColumnistEL PASO  I have a suggestion for President Trump. Instead of fanning fear during your visit to this city on Monday night, stroll across the Paso del Norte Bridge into Ciudad Jarez. Join the 70,000 people crossing four bridges who daily form the human tissue linking the United States and Mexico. They work, they study, they eat, they shop, all part of what Dee Margo, the mayor of El Paso, calls one region, one culture.I crossed the bridge. Things slow down, as they do when you move from the developed to the developing world. Secondhand clothes for sale hang on simple brightly painted homes, the poorest made of pallets and corrugated iron roofs. Jarez, home to many of the foreign-owned assembly plants known as maquiladoras, has a violent history and big social problems, but in the dusty streets and cafes serving steaming bowls of tripe-and-bean soup I discerned no tension.Its simple, Julin Cardona, a photographer, told me. Everyone here knows Trump hates brown people. We call him Trompudo, or big mouth.From that mouth seeps the sinister specter of an invasion. Thousands of active-duty troops are dispatched to the border. Concertina wire spreads. The government shutdown that ended on Jan. 25 could be followed soon by Trumps declaration of a national emergency to build his wall. Presidential powers include the power to manufacture a threat where none exists.From my vantage point in El Paso there is no crisis, Margo, the mayor, told me. You look south and you cant tell where El Paso merges into Jarez.Bridges, in other words, trump walls.At one of the shelters run by the nonprofit Annunciation House, I met Iris Galindo Maldonado, an undocumented 43-year-old woman from Guerrero State, in southwestern Mexico, who entered the United States on Jan. 15 with her 10-year-old daughter to request asylum. Her husband was killed seven years ago by drug dealers angered by his refusal to cooperate with them. She said they have threatened her in turn for refusing to help them smuggle cocaine.Ive already lived, she told me. I hope the American authorities support me for my daughter, so shes not in danger, shes not menaced, and gets educated. I told her, even if we stay one week, two weeks, however long it is, use the opportunity to learn English. Shes already in school, and I pray to God a lot.Galindo, aged 43, has been processed by ICE, fitted with an ankle bracelet, and let go to face a long wait in American limbo, along with several hundred thousand others, before her day in immigration court. She has no family in the United States.Trump calls us killers, delinquents and drug dealers, she told me. In fact that is exactly what we are fleeing from!Annunciation House took her in. Ruben Garcia, the director of the organization, says he is finding beds these days for more than 2,000 people a week. If nothing else, Trumps rhetoric and policy swerves have helped feed chaos.For Trump, to be a refugee is to be a murderer and a rapist, Garcia told me. This is what he ran on. He has a can of paint filled with a certain ideology and paints everything with it. To supporters of the wall, I ask: Is it time to take down the Statue of Liberty?Representative Veronica Escobar, the successor to Beto ORourke, now a possible Democratic presidential candidate, took me down to the spot, near a stretch of existing wall, where border agents detained an 8-year-old Guatemalan boy, Felipe Gmez Alonzo, in December. He later died in United States custody.The spot is over the Rio Grande, in the United States, but just short of the wall, raising the question of the barriers usefulness. That is a question the president has refused to address with any seriousness. His wall is much less about security than macho symbolism  a monument to bigotry, in Escobars words.I got talking to an agent who stopped us as we stepped south of the wall. He said agents in that area detained 300 bodies a day. He said the bodies were jumping the line. He said by the time their cases came before an immigration judge, the bodies are somewhere else so they get to stay. So, he concluded, we really have no authority to enforce the law.Bodies, I noted, is a term generally used for dead people. Would it not be better to call them people or human beings, as this is what they are? The agent said he didnt mean that they are dead, but that bodies was the favored term.I was subsequently advised not to read too much into this law enforcement vernacular. Border agents are under a lot of pressure. Their gestures of humanity  a birthday cake, a soccer ball  tend to go unrecorded. Still, if you talk about bodies you are liable to see bodies: that is to say, people stripped of their humanity, their agonizing choices, their humble ambitions and their hopes. It is then easier to treat them with callous harshness, to forget what we Americans are and where we came from.When I walked back across the bridge, a United States passport control officer pored over my passport for several minutes: the Iranian visa, the Iraqi visa, the Chinese visa, the Indian visa. She asked what I do, whether Id crossed the bridge before, why Id entered Mexico. She was hostile.This guys from The New York Times, she said, turning to the agent next to her. What should I do with him?He looked me over. Let him go, he said. I thanked her for the warm welcome home. Just doing my job, she said.Trumps rhetoric is not innocuous.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Roger Cohen has been a columnist for The Times since 2009. His columns appear Wednesday and Saturday. He joined The Times in 1990, and has served as a foreign correspondent and foreign editor.  @NYTimesCohen Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byAgain and again, forecasters have been too optimistic  which is a sign of the economys funk.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistPresident Trump likes to brag about the supposedly booming economy. So do other Republican politicians. Some journalists have gotten into the habit too, exaggerating the strength of the economic expansion, because it makes for a good story.Heres the truth: There is no boom. The economy has been mired in an extended funk since the financial crisis ended in 2010. G.D.P. growth still has not reached 3 percent in any year, and 3 percent isnt a very high bar. Last week, while attending an economics conference in Washington, I discovered one particularly clear sign of the economys struggles  namely, that it keeps performing worse than the experts have predicted. I put together this chart to show the trend:Again and again, Federal Reserve officials have overestimated how quickly the economy would grow. They keep having to revise their forecasts downward, only to discover that they didnt go far enough down. Economists on Wall Street and other parts of the private sector have made the same mistake. Over time, the differences between the experts predictions and the economys performance have added up. The American economy would be about 6 percent larger today  producing $1.3 trillion more in goods and services this year  if the forecasts had come true. And for most families, real-life experience has been more disappointing than the G.D.P. numbers, because much of the bounty of the economys growth has flowed to the affluent.So what is ailing the American economy?Several years ago, Lawrence Summers  the economist and former Treasury secretary  began using the phrase secular stagnation to describe the problem. The term was originally coined during the Great Depression, and it describes an economy that cant quite get healthy.When Summers first made his case in 2013, some other economists criticized it as too pessimistic. But the repeated growth shortfalls of recent years suggest he was onto something. At last weeks conference, hosted by the Brookings Institution, Olivier Blanchard  the former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund  said he was now more persuaded by the secular-stagnation story than he first had been. It is, Blanchard said, more likely than not.There are two main culprits. The first is a savings glut. Americans are saving more and spending less partly because the rich now take home so much of the economys income  and the rich dont spend as large a share of their income as the poor and middle class. The aging of society plays a role too, because people are saving for retirement.[Sign up for David Leonhardts daily newsletter with commentary on the news and reading suggestions from around the web.]The second big cause is an investment slump. Despite all the savings available to be invested, companies are holding back. Some have grown so large and monopoly-like that they dont need to invest in new projects to make profits. Think about your internet provider: It may have terrible customer service, but you dont have a lot of alternatives. The company doesnt need to invest in new technology or employees to keep you as a customer.Beside a lack of competition, the investment slump stems from what Summers calls the de-massification of the economy. Developers arent building as many malls and stores, because goods now go straight from warehouses to homes. Offices dont need as much storage space. Cellphones have replaced not just desktop computers but also cameras, stereos, books and more. Many young people have decided theyre happy living in small apartments, without cars.For all of these economic problems, there are promising solutions. But the United States is not giving those solutions a try.The 2017 Trump tax law is a useful case study. It is a dreadful piece of economic policy  essentially a giant effort to aggravate income inequality. Tax cuts that benefit the wealthy most are huge and permanent. Tax cuts focused on everyone else are smaller and temporary.But the law still pumped money into the economy last year, thanks largely to those temporary tax cuts for the middle class and poor. And guess what? G.D.P. growth finally met some forecasters expectations, as you can see from the first chart above. The economy expanded 2.9 percent in 2018. Unfortunately, the boost seems to have been temporary. In the first quarter of this year, growth has slowed markedly, probably to about 0.5 percent. It will most likely grow faster over the rest of 2019, but not 3 percent. Once again, economists have started downgrading their expectations.A better policy response would start with a tax cut focused on the majority of Americans, not the wealthy. And there are many other ways to take on secular stagnation. When I spoke to Summers last week, he rattled off a list: Infrastructure projects, to jump-start investment. The retirement of coal-fired power plants, which would also lead to new investment. Stronger safety-net programs, including Social Security, to reduce the savings glut. More aggressive antitrust policies, to combat monopolies. And a Federal Reserve that, at long last, stopped making the same mistake  of overestimating both growth and inflation.After a decade of negative economic surprises, maybe we shouldnt be surprised anymore. Maybe we should try some new solutions.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt  Facebook Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byCollege sports do have some upsides. But their sheer scale is silly.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of David Leonhardts newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday.At 11:15 a.m. local time in Des Moines this morning, March Madness will begin in earnest. The mens basketball teams from the University of Minnesota and the University of Louisville will be playing each other. It will be the first of 16 games today, and another 80 mens or womens games will take place over the next several days.In a couple of recent newsletters, Ive written about the downsides of college sports, and there are some big ones. Today, I want to talk about some upsides  and about how college sports might be able to achieve a better balance.I assume that many of you have filled out March Madness brackets with your friends, family or colleagues. Those brackets give you an excuse to have some fun together. Some of you are also fortunate enough to have a big rooting interest in one of the teams still playing. Maybe youll watch a game together or exchange nervous texts in a games final moments. Maybe youll end up jumping around your house in joy at some point in the next couple weeks with your kids or siblings.[Listen to The Argument podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]College sports bring people a lot of joy. As one of my college roommates texted me last week, as a way of objecting to my recent criticism of sports, Im happier when our basketball team is good. Hes got a point. Sports create shared experiences in a way that few other activities in this country do.This communal function means that colleges have a good reason to treat some athletes differently from most other applicants. Yes, the colleges should make sure theyre admitting only athletes with the academic preparation to graduate. But I understand why the basketball players representing the University of Minnesota today dont necessarily need the same academic qualifications as the student oboists or journalists at Minnesota. Those athletes bring something to the campus that few other students can.Why in the world?But its important to remember something else. Most college sports dont look anything like basketball. They dont bring a lot of people together. Their crowds are small. They dont have many spillover benefits for the other parts of a university. They exist largely for the benefit of the athletes themselves  which makes them not so different from many other extracurricular activities.And these other sports are often disproportionately played by white, relatively well-off students. They dont add much diversity to a campus. Only 4 percent of male college lacrosse players are black, as Justin Wolfers of the University of Michigan has noted. Only 5 percent of fencers are. In golf, the share is 2 percent. In water polo, its 1 percent.Yet colleges treat athletes in these sports as an entirely different species of applicant. The athletes dont need to have nearly as strong applications as other students.Because so many of these sports exist, the share of athletes at some colleges is shockingly high. Roughly 20 percent, or one-fifth, of the entering class at the Ivy League universities and the leading small liberal arts colleges are recruited athletes, Jonathan Cole, a top former official at Columbia University (and, before that, a college athlete), has written. Why in the world are the schools using up 20 percent of their slots on recruited athletes? The answer, Cole explains, is that sports have become a kind of arms race.(In a recent newsletter, I mentioned that about one in five students at Williams College, in western Massachusetts, was an athlete, according to an outside estimate. That turns out to be wrong  and too conservative. Williams is on the high end of the distribution, with about 30 percent of students being recruited athletes, according to the college.)Cole is right that this situation doesnt make any sense. I am fully aware that fencers, golfers, water polo players and other athletes work extremely hard. But so do many other students who participate in other extracurricular activities and have superior academic records. Those other students are often rejected to make room for the athletes. The problem is the special treatment that so many athletes are receiving.In a better system, most colleges would substantially shrink the number of athletes they recruit. Each would keep a modest number of sports  split equally between men and women  for which they would recruit athletes and still give huge admissions bonuses. These wouldnt be the only teams that colleges fielded. But the other sports would follow a classic scholar-athlete model. The members of the teams would no longer receive extra-special treatment in the admissions process. They would be students who happened to be athletes. And they would compete with other teams filled with similar athletes.Is any college brave enough to move in this direction?RelatedOn this weeks episode of The Argument podcast, we talk about what a better college admissions system could look like. We also debate whether President Trump is helping to cause white-nationalist violence.I realize I havent dug into the debate over whether college athletes should be paid here. If you want to, read Nancy Skinner, a California state senator, making the case in favor and the journalist Jemele Hill or Cody McDavis, a former college basketball player, making the case against.If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt  Facebook Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Hiroko Masuike(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.) Good evening. Heres the latest.1. British lawmakers dealt a crushing defeat to Prime Minister Theresa Mays plan for leaving the European Union.The 432-to-202 vote was the biggest loss in the House of Commons in recent history for a prime minister. The turn of events thrusts Britain into further political chaos just 10 weeks before the countrys scheduled exit from the E.U. Mrs. May above center.The opposition leader Jeremy Corbyn put forward a motion of no confidence in Mrs. May, which Parliament will debate and vote on Wednesday. As things stand, the prime minister must return to Parliament by Monday to present a backup withdrawal plan.If nothing is approved by March 29, Britain will make a no-deal exit from the E.U., which lawmakers have warned could be chaotic and pose grave economic risks. Here are some other ways everything could shake out._____2. President Trumps nominee for attorney general assured senators at his confirmation hearing that he would allow the special counsel, Robert Mueller, to finish the Russia investigation, and promised to withstand any political pressure from the White House.It is in the best interest of everyone  the president, Congress and, most importantly, the American people  that this matter be resolved by allowing the special counsel to complete his work, William Barr said of the inquiry, which is believed to be in its final stages.With Republicans firmly in control of the Senate, his confirmation to lead the Justice Department appears to be on track.Mr. Barr, who also served as attorney general under President George Bush, is known for his unusually expansive views of executive power. But during the hearing, he qualified some of his beliefs, emphasizing legal limits on the presidency and the independence of law enforcement._____3. House Democrats were a no-show at a White House lunch as both sides continue to search for a compromise to end the government shutdown.The Democrats absence was the latest indication that the party is still standing firm against Mr. Trumps demand for $5.7 billion for a border wall. Above, demonstrators at a rally organized by the National Air Traffic Controllers Association.With the shutdown in its 25th day, the Federal Aviation Administration recalled thousands of furloughed workers to address air safety concerns. (They will work without pay.) And the government closings are weighing heavily on young people caught up in the impasse.From the border, our journalists sent in their latest dispatch as they drive the length of the approximately 1,900-mile U.S.-Mexico frontier._____4. The House of Representatives overwhelmingly approved a resolution condemning white supremacy, reflecting anger in both parties over comments by Representative Steve King of Iowa questioning why white supremacy is considered offensive.Mr. King, who has a history of making racist remarks and insulting immigrants, was stripped of two House committee seats Monday, after comments he made to The Times: White nationalist, white supremacist, Western civilization  how did that language become offensive?Mr. King, above, took to the House floor to say he would vote in support of the resolution, which called out his remarks specifically. Only one representative voted against it, saying anything short of a censure was shallow.Separately, a federal judge blocked the Commerce Department from adding a question about citizenship to the 2020 census. The case will most likely reach the Supreme Court before the printing of census forms begins this summer._____5. Militants attacked a hotel and office complex in Kenyas capital, Nairobi, with a blast and heavy gunfire.At least one person was confirmed killed and 15 wounded in the assault, but the death toll was expected to rise, with some news outlets reporting seven dead. Above, after a blast at the hotel.The assailants were identified as members of the Shabab, an Islamist extremist group with ties to Al Qaeda. The attack came on the eve of a verdict in the trial of three men accused of helping the group in a deadly assault on the Westgate shopping mall in Nairobi more than five years ago._____6. The most incendiary accusation yet at the El Chapo trial: A witness said the former Mexican president Enrique Pea Nieto had taken a $100 million bribe from the infamous crime lord.The stunning testimony was delivered in a New York courtroom by Alex Cifuentes Villa, a Colombian pictured above with El Chapo. The two worked closely together from 2007 to 2013, when they were hiding from the authorities in the Sierra Madre mountains. Mr. Cifuentes said Mr. Pea Nieto had reached out around 2012, asking for $250 million to call off the manhunt.There have been hints at high-level corruption since the start of the trial in November, including payoffs from traffickers to the Mexican police and public officials  but no accusations at this level before._____7. When Andy Murray announced he planned to retire from tennis this year, the most distinct voices in the chorus praising him were female.Over more than a decade as a top-10 player, Mr. Murray has used his position to be an advocate for women in tennis in ways large and small. He became the highest-profile mens player to hire a female coach, and he has made a point of correcting reporters when they omit women from statistics.Your greatest impact on the world may be yet to come, the tennis great Billie Jean King wrote on Twitter. Your voice for equality will inspire future generations._____8. When Sphen and Magic became a couple, Australia had just gone through a bitter battle to legalize gay marriage. Suddenly, the countrys biggest animal celebrities were two gay penguins.And after another couple in the colony started neglecting an egg, penguin keepers at the Sea Life Sydney Aquarium figured they would give it to Sphen and Magic.Their chick  called Sphengic  hatched in October and is now waddling around its ice enclosure near the harbor.Our reporter took a look at Sphen and Magic, their courtship, parenting skills and what they mean to Australia._____9. What if the past 15 years in food had never happened?Pete Wells, our chief restaurant critic, found the new Manhattan restaurant Benno proudly out of step with the age  and excellent. Fermented vegetables, foraging and hashtags are all far from the menu. Its trying to be delicious, he writes. And it is, from start to finish, almost without exception. Above, duck with foie gras, ras el hanout, turnips and pistachio-date brik at Benno.And the first review is in from our new California restaurant critic, Tejal Rao. She writes about Angler in San Francisco, where the chef is showing how a seafood-rich menu can adapt to the forces of climate change._____10. We end today with a farewell to one of the most recognizable presences in theater.Carol Channing, whose performances in Gentlemen Prefer Blondes and Hello, Dolly! made her a Broadway legend, died at the age of 97. Ms. Channings voice, gravel-toned and deep, was as distinctive as her appearance.Over the course of her life, and around the world, Ms. Channing played the title role of the matchmaker Dolly Gallagher Levi more than 5,000 times by her count.Performing is the only excuse for my existence, she said during her last Broadway appearance, in 1995. What can be better than this?Have a dazzling night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And dont miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Jason Horowitz and Steven ErlangerROME  President Xi Jinping of China arrived on Friday at Romes presidential palace with a cavalry escort usually reserved for royals. For a three-day visit, Italy pulled out all the stops for an economic superpower promising billions in investment and trade deals in exchange for officially signing on to Chinas vast new Silk Road.But even as Mr. Xi and his wife were serenaded at a state dinner by Andrea Bocelli, the leaders of France, Germany and the European Union huddled in Brussels hoping to strengthen the Continents defenses against what they considered to be Chinas economic incursion.The disconnect between the two scenes laid bare the divisions and tensions in Europe, caught in the middle of a trade war between the United States and China, while trying to find its bearings and assert its power in a volatile era of shifting geopolitical alliances and American retrenchment.China plays on our divisions, President Emmanuel Macron of France, speaking in Brussels, told reporters on Friday, adding that the European Union had finally woken up to China. The period of European navet is over.But stalling Chinas success in dividing European allies will be easier said than done. Italy may be just the latest economic partner for China in Europe, but it is a significant one. It is the first member of the Group of 7 nations that once dominated the global economy to take part in Chinas vast Belt and Road infrastructure project, a sign of how a rising China is reshaping the worlds economic and political order.Even as Europe now struggles to forge a common policy toward Chinas economic advance, Beijing has managed to hive off deal after deal in Europe. France and Germany, which are now leading the call for greater reciprocity in economic relations with China, already have some of the largest stakes in continuing to lure Chinese trade and investment.Their wary eye on Chinese investments is not necessarily new, but it is intensifying.What is newer and perhaps unprecedented is Chinas growing influence in European countries, such as Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Greece, Hungary, Macedonia, Montenegro, Poland, Portugal, and Serbia, to name just a few, said Philippe Le Corre of the Harvard Kennedy School.There is growing concern, in fact, that China has arrived in Europe not as an economic collaborator, but as a conqueror. The European Commission called China an economic competitor in critical industrial fields and a systemic rival politically in a tough paper issued last week.The European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker repeated that refrain on Friday, saying the Chinese market is not sufficiently open to European companies, and we must change this.While that language aligned more closely with the view of the Trump administration, European allies and Washington remain relatively estranged. The Europeans lament that the United States has not done enough to offset what China has to offer.The Trump administration, according to Italian officials, failed to argue against the Chinese deal with Italy until the very late stages.Mr. Juncker noted that Europe did not want to be caught having to choose between the United States and China. But that has become increasingly difficult, as it has also become more difficult for European allies to coordinate policies with a Trump administration that has wielded sticks  like the threat of sanctions against German automakers  where Mr. Xi offers carrots.Still, to emphasize the European unity, Mr. Macron invited Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and Mr. Juncker, the European Commissions president, to join him on Sunday when Mr. Xi meets him during the French leg of his European tour.In Brussels, European leaders discussed their commitment to increased screening of foreign, and especially Chinese, investments. (Italy abstained from a recent vote to bolster that screening.)They have pointed to Chinas failure to open its markets and its public procurement, its national subsidies to create big corporations, its push for dominance in key new technologies like 5G and artificial intelligence, and its aggressiveness in the South China Sea.There is a broader rethink of E.U. policy toward China to protect industrial interests, the E.U. and member states against Chinese influence in many fields, from investment to security risks like the Chinese electronics giant Huawei, said Daniela Schwarzer, the director of the German Council on Foreign Relations.European leaders were correct to demand more reciprocity with Beijing, Mr. Le Corre of the Harvard Kennedy School said, so that their new Silk Road wont be a one-way road.Italys president, Sergio Mattarella, had a similar message as he stood next to Mr. Xi in the Quirinal Palace on Friday morning.The ancient Silk Road was a tool of knowledge among people and to share mutual discoveries, Mr. Mattarella said. The new one must also be a two-way street.But so far, no matter which way the road goes, it is Beijing that is doing most of the driving. On Saturday, Mr. Xi and Italys prime minister, Giuseppe Conte, will sign a memorandum of understanding in which Italy will officially join the Belt and Road project.Next month, Prime Minister Li Keqiang of China will meet with all the nations of the European Union in an annual summit. He will also meet separately in Croatia with 16 European nations, several of them members of the European Union, with which Beijing has already signed deals to join the Belt and Road initiative.On Friday, Mr. Xi thanked Italy for its deep friendship and spoke about the importance of revitalizing the ancient Silk Road, strengthening ties and developing a series of concrete projects together. He assured the Italians, who are desperate to open Chinese markets to Italian goods, that he wanted a commercial exchange that goes both ways and a flow of investments that goes both ways.The tightening relationship between China and Italy has worried American officials, who have tried and failed to stop the deal, expressing concern that Chinas economic expansion is a precursor to military and political ambitions.When it became clear that Italy would nevertheless sign the deal, the American ambassador in Italy and other officials instead tried to convince Italy not to use 5G wireless networks developed by Huawei, which Washington warns could be used by Beijing to spy on communications networks.Leaders of the European Union in Brussels have also raised fears that Italy  saddled by debt, and tempted by promises of hundreds of millions of euros in infrastructure investment  could fall prey to a Chinese divide-and-conquer strategy. And critics of the Italian government have called the deal yet another example of its dangerous navet and incompetence.Italian leaders have argued that there is nothing to be concerned about. Italy, they say, will avoid Chinas debt traps, and its laws prevent foreigners from taking control of its ports, as China has done in Piraeus, Greece.But critics of the government do not find these guarantees reassuring.A full-page cartoon on the front page of Thursdays Il Foglio, a newspaper critical of the government, showed Mr. Conte, the prime minister, leading an enormous, fire-breathing Chinese dragon with a short leash.In the cartoon, Mr. Conte says, Take it easy guys, I can manage him. He practically eats from my hand.Mr. Conte has defended the deal, saying Germany and France have considerably more business with China and that it was a way to inject Italian goods into a huge Asian marketWe want to first and foremost rebalance our trade, which is not favorable to us now. Our exports to China are far lower than other European countries, Mr. Conte told Italys Parliament before the visit. We will have new airports, new trade corridors, and it will certainly influence our economic growth. We dont want to lose any opportunity.An earlier version of this article misspelled one of the Chinese prime ministers names. He is Li Keqiang, not Kequiang.Jason Horowitz reported from Rome, and Steven Erlanger from Brussels.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Jim TankersleyWASHINGTON  President Trump said on Friday that he had offered a position on the Federal Reserves Board of Governors to Stephen Moore, a conservative economic adviser who has become an outspoken critic of the Feds interest rate policy.Mr. Moore has blamed the Feds rate increases over the past year for slowing economic growth and recently began calling on the central bank to begin cutting rates. An economist at the conservative Heritage Foundation, Mr. Moore helped draft Mr. Trumps tax proposals in the 2016 campaign and has served as an informal adviser ever since.As a nominee, Mr. Moore, 59, would face intense criticism in the Senate from Democrats, with whom he has clashed on several economic issues in his career as a commentator and policy advocate.I will be nominating Mr. Moore for the Fed, Mr. Trump told reporters after landing in Palm Beach, Fla. Hes going to be great on the Fed.The president added in a post on Twitter that Mr. Moore will be an outstanding choice!The move seeks to elevate a Trump loyalist to the Fed, an institution that the president has repeatedly blasted for raising interest rates, which he says have been a drag on the economy. Mr. Trump has repeatedly criticized his handpicked Fed chairman, Jerome H. Powell, saying he does not agree with Mr. Powells approach.In recent public writings and private meetings with Mr. Trump, Mr. Moore has pushed for the Fed to reverse at least two of the four interest rate increases that it approved last year. Mr. Moore blames those increases for a drop in commodity prices at the end of last year. He recently pushed the Fed to target commodity prices in setting interest rates, a view rarely advocated by economists and monetary policymakers.The Fed is sucking the oxygen out of the economy and has created an economically debilitating deflation, Mr. Moore said in an email this month. Deflation shrinks the economy. The Fed should reverse its disastrous rate hikes of September and December.The one guy who gets this is Trump, Mr. Moore added. He told me in a meeting last month that the Fed is preventing us from staying on 3 to 4 percent growth path.""On Wednesday, The Wall Street Journal published an opinion piece in which Mr. Moore called the Fed the last major obstacle to a sustained economic boom.The deflation began with quarter-point interest-rate increases in September and December, Mr. Moore and a co-author wrote. These hikes caused a severe dollar shortage, a fall in commodity prices and a rapid slowing of growth  accompanied by wild swings in the stock market.In an interview that the Fox Business Network aired Friday morning, Mr. Trump appeared to echo much of Mr. Moores thinking, saying economic growth would have been higher last year if not for the Feds rate increases and its effort to slim down its holdings of government-backed securities, which some call quantitative tightening.Mr. Trump has repeatedly criticized the choices being made by Mr. Powell. Frankly, if we didnt have somebody that would raise interest rates and do quantitative tightening, we would have been at over 4 instead of a 3.1 percent growth, the president said.Asked if he had influenced Fed policy with his criticism, Mr. Trump said: I dont know. I mean, look, I hope I didnt influence, frankly, but it doesnt matter. I dont care if I influenced or not.One thing, I was right, he continued. But we would have been over 4 if they didnt do all of the interest rate hikes. And they tightened, I mean, they did $50 billion a month. I said, What are we doing here? And so Im not  3.1 may be the best in 14 years; Im not happy with it. We should have had much higher.The Fed had been on a steady campaign to raise rates and ushered in five consecutive quarters of increases in 2017 and 2018. The Fed has since paused and adopted a more patient approach amid signs of economic weakness both in the United States and abroad. On Wednesday, it signaled that it foresaw no interest rate increases in 2019, a departure from December, when it forecast two rate increases this year.After that December rate hike, Mr. Moore said Mr. Powell should resign as Fed chair, calling the increase one of the most remarkable Abbott and Costello routines in modern times.In an interview with Bloomberg TV on Friday, Mr. Moore said those comments were made in a time of anger but said everyone would now acknowledge that what they did in December with the rate increase was a substantial mistake.Mr. Moore added that he was not going to the Fed to be a destructor and that he looked forward to working with Mr. Powell, whom he has not yet met. Mr. Moore also demurred when asked about the size of the Feds balance sheet, saying he wanted to study up on the issue. In 2014, Mr. Moore co-wrote a research paper that called for the Fed to reduce its balance sheet by selling off securities through 2020.Over time, obviously, we want to reduce that balance sheet, he said in the interview.Mr. Moore would be Mr. Trumps seventh Fed nominee. Aside from Mr. Powell, the Senate approved Mr. Trumps nominations of Richard H. Clarida and Randal K. Quarles, both vice chairs, and Michelle W. Bowman. Two other nominees, Nellie Liang and Marvin Goodfriend, were opposed by some Senate Republicans, and Ms. Liang pulled her name from consideration. Mr. Goodfriends nomination lapsed in the last Congress.Mr. Moore, who has a masters degree in economics, was the founder of the conservative Club for Growth and a past member of The Wall Street Journals editorial board. His interest rate views have changed in recent years.In 2015, when growth was slower and unemployment higher than it is now, he wrote a column criticizing the Fed for amassing $4.5 trillion worth of government backed bonds and for refusing to raise rates, and warned that the Fed chairwoman at the time, Janet L. Yellen, was setting the stage for another financial crisis.The Fed refused to raise interest rates off zero in September, and, hello, that easy money policy is how we got into the mess in 2000 and then in 2008, he wrote. Wall Street cheered Janet Yellens decision to keep the cheap dollars flowing. Isnt this all starting to sound familiar?Many Fed watchers criticized Mr. Trumps selection of Mr. Moore, even those who have called for keeping interest rates low to help workers and spur growth.Stephen Moore is a particularly poor choice for the Federal Reserve Board, said Tim Duy, an economics professor and a Fed expert at the University of Oregon. He appears more devoted to pursuing a far-right economic agenda than willing to understand the complexity of economic policy.In the past, Mr. Moore expressed qualified support for a return to the gold standard, which pegs the value of the dollar to gold prices, a practice the United States abandoned in 1971. In an interview in 2015, he agreed with his friend Steve Forbes that a return to such a standard would be a lot better than what we have now.Mr. Moore said he would prefer to peg monetary policy to a basket of commodity prices, which he said would have a similar constraining effect as the gold standard on policymakers.I do think that some rule needs to be put in place, he said, so that people like Janet Yellen and these other central bankers arent making up these rules as they go along.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byPolitical MemoBy Jonathan MartinWASHINGTON  Medicare for All. A federal jobs guarantee. The Green New Deal. No Super PAC money. No mass deportations.And, of course, a candidate who can beat President Trump  right?After a 2018 midterm election that energized the left, perhaps the most consequential political question facing the Democratic Party is whether liberals will insist on imposing policy litmus tests on 2020 presidential hopefuls, or whether voters will rally behind the candidate most capable of defeating the president even if that Democrat is imperfect on some issues.These dual priorities  and which one is emphasized more in the coming primary races  will help determine how the party approaches 2020. Will candidates sprint to the left on issues and risk hurting themselves with intraparty policy fights and in the general election? Or will they keep the focus squarely on Mr. Trump and possibly disappoint liberals by not being bolder on policy?The two paths may help determine the electoral fortunes of potential left-wing candidates like Senator Bernie Sanders and more moderate ones like former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., as well as Democrats like Senator Kamala Harris and Beto ORourke who have a history of appealing to both liberals and moderates and drawing ire from some leftists for not being aggressive enough on policy.Senator Elizabeth Warren showed one way of dealing with these party tensions on her first campaign swing as a presidential candidate to Iowa this month. Ms. Warren chose not to talk about Medicare for All, a signature issue for the ascendant left. But she seized every opportunity before overwhelmingly white audiences to highlight challenges facing people of color.In doing so, Ms. Warren signaled to voters that she believes addressing matters of race and identity will prove as crucial to winning over Democrats as proving her bona fides on every element of economic populism.If opposing the Iraq War was the crucial red line for Democratic candidates in 2008, many in the party believe that proving oneself as the antidote to Mr. Trump and his brand of incendiary politics will become the ultimate litmus test in 2020, more than demonstrating policy purity. Yet some activists want both: fierce resistance to Mr. Trump and unwavering fidelity to the lefts catechism of issues.Representative Ruben Gallego of Arizona, who is eying a Senate race in 2020, said that while many voters will expect the presidential hopefuls to meet threshold tests of being progressive, the most important factors in the race are going to be an ability to inspire the partys voters and defeat Mr. Trump.I dont believe the electorate is going to be so purist that theyre going to knock somebody out because theyre not 100 percent down-the-line, said Mr. Gallego, who added, People are excited about candidates they think have a potential to win.Or, as Representative Elijah Cummings of Maryland put it: If theres a litmus test, its going to be righting the country.Voters, said Mr. Cummings, are scared.This is exactly what alarms some on the left, who do not want the perceived threat of Mr. Trump and horse race political concerns to undercut major policy priorities.Fear is a useful tactic to override underlying ideological debate, said Matt Stoller, a populist writer and former congressional aide, recalling that similar emotions about finding electable Democrats in the George W. Bush era led the party to embrace moderate politicians and policies to the frustration of many on the left.As Mr. Stoller noted, much of the recent left-wing criticism against Mr. ORourke, the former Texas representative, was rooted in the dread that his nomination would represent a triumph of he-can-win, personality-based politics  and that he would mark a continuation of the incremental economic policies of the last two Democratic presidents, rather than a break from them.When many on the left listen to Mr. ORourke or Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey, another likely candidate, plead for a better kind of politics or a healing of the country after Mr. Trump, they hear an Obama-style call for stylistic change rather than a case for truly confronting entrenched power.We tried that, and it didnt work, Mr. Stoller said. And its pretty obvious to everybody now that it didnt work.Mr. Trumps fixation on immigration only makes it easier for a would-be candidate like Mr. ORourke to skirt questions about his specific policy views and instead draw broad contrasts between himself and the president on issues related to the border and the character of the country, as he has done on social media in recent days.He and Ms. Warren are not the only potential contenders road-testing a message that spotlights their differences with the president.Trump is a lying populist; Democrats need an optimistic realist, said former Gov. Terry McAuliffe of Virginia, who is considering a presidential run and trumpets his progressive record on race, gender and sexual orientation but believes that Democrats must resist the temptation of lashing the business community.We cant go through this campaign demonizing folks, Mr. McAuliffe said.Another question ahead of 2020 is which candidate will be able to portray himself or herself most effectively as the antidote to Trump and Trumpism. Will this contrast be rendered most vividly by nominating a candidate whose platform differs from the presidents policies the most; one who can speak most articulately about changing course; or one who  through age, gender or race  represents the starkest departure from the president?In the midterms, Democratic primary voters rallied behind a historic number of female congressional candidates who spanned the partys ideological gamut.And some Democratic strategists believe that the only real issue-based tests that primary voters will put to candidates revolve around matters of race and identity.I dont think you can be for stop-and-frisk in a primary, said Cornell Belcher, a Democratic pollster, referring to the policing tactic of Michael R. Bloomberg, the former New York mayor, that critics say targets black people. Its less about economic issues than culture and issues of the heart.Yet to supporters of Mr. Sanders and some others on the left, it is folly to assume that voter hunger to defeat Mr. Trump will somehow obviate the need to offer a bold economic agenda. In their eyes, pursuing an aggressive populist agenda is essential to proving to voters that you will confront Mr. Trump.The party is in a different place  we need somebody to stand up and defend our core progressive values, Ben Tulchin, Mr. Sanderss pollster, said. And if youre waffling on key issues like Medicare for All, or if you lack clarity on it because you want to give yourself flexibility in governing, voters will see that.This moment, said Representative Pramila Jayapal of Washington, will require a candidate who sounds clarion opposition to Mr. Trump on race and gender while also embracing a full-spectrum, left-wing agenda.It has to be somebody who is really willing to take on race, racism and immigration, but also is willing to take on these big corporations in a way that just hasnt happened, said Ms. Jayapal, a rising member of the Houses Progressive Caucus.To strategists who worked on the 2018 midterms, however, the enormous attention being paid to a handful of outspoken liberals like Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York misses the nonideological approach of many of the partys successful candidates for governor and Congress.There wasnt a demand among Democratic primary voters for litmus tests, said Anna Greenberg, a Democratic pollster.And Ms. Greenberg, who is working for former Gov. John Hickenlooper of Colorado, a possible 2020 candidate, contends that electoral viability will be more central in the coming Democratic presidential primary than in any recent election.Trump has framed our politics, she said. Everything is a reaction to Trump.Or, as Mr. Belcher put it: This anger about our divisions and where our country is going will be front and center  and the candidate who can speak to this division and be a direct contrast to Trump is going to do really well.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, has already secured several convictions or guilty pleas as a result of his inquiry. Here are some of his most prominent targets.By Scott DoddThe investigation of Robert S. Mueller III, who submitted his report to the Justice Department on Friday, has already revealed a range of events related to Russian interference in the 2016 election and produced a series of high-profile indictments. Six people connected to President Trump have been charged by the special counsel with an array of crimes, including financial fraud and lying to Congress and investigators. Five have been convicted or pleaded guilty. Twenty-eight others, including 26 Russians, also face charges.Our videos tell you what you need to know about three of the most prominent Trump associates who have been charged or convicted as a result of the Mueller investigation.A longtime Republican consultant and lobbyist, Mr. Manafort served on the Trump campaign from March until August 2016, including three months as chairman. He was convicted of financial fraud and conspiracy in connection with consulting work on behalf of pro-Russian political figures in Ukraine and was sentenced to a total of seven and a half years in prison. The Manhattan district attorney has also filed more than a dozen state criminal charges, including mortgage fraud, against Mr. Manafort. If convicted on those charges, Mr. Manafort could remain behind bars even if the president decides to pardon him for his federal crimes. Convictions for state crimes are not subject to presidential pardons.Mr. Trumps former lawyer and fixer pleaded guilty to lying to Congress about negotiations to develop a Trump Tower in Moscow during the campaign. He has also been sentenced to prison in a different investigation related to hush-money payments he made on behalf of Mr. Trump. In February testimony to Congress, he called Mr. Trump a con man and a cheat.A longtime friend and adviser to Mr. Trump, Mr. Stone was indicted on charges of lying to Congress about his efforts to contact WikiLeaks. According to the charges filed by the special counsels office, a top Trump campaign official had dispatched Mr. Stone to get information from WikiLeaks about thousands of hacked Democratic emails stolen by Russians. In late January, Mr. Stone was arrested in a pre-dawn F.B.I. raid at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Later, outside the courthouse, he vowed to beat what he called politically motivated charges.Scott Dodd is a senior staff editor based in New York. He was previously a reporter for newspapers in Pennsylvania and North Carolina and an editor and contributor to environmental and science publications.  @scottdodd Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe presidents tariffs were the jab. Closing off his aid payments could be a knockout for many family farms. By Robert LeonardMr. Leonard is the news director for the Iowa radio stations KNIA and KRLS.KNOXVILLE, Iowa  Today President Trump will address the American Farm Bureaus 100th annual convention in New Orleans. But any promises of help will be too late for many farmers.Had he set out to ruin Americas small farmers, he could hardly have come up with a more effective, potentially ruinous one-two combination punch than tariffs and the shutdown.The trade wars collapsed farmers markets. Now, with farmers down, hes kicking them with a partial shutdown that has effectively slammed the door on farm payments, loans and more. Its hurting rural Americans  those who formed a big part of the base of Mr. Trumps support in 2016.Normally, January is a special and often joyous month for farmers, as they recover from the hard work of harvest and look to spring and a new planting season. They have sold much of their crops and are paying bills, taking out new operating loans for the coming year and buying seed, fertilizer and more.Not this year. With his tariffs, Mr. Trump kicked the legs out from under the markets. Much of our soybean and corn crops had nowhere to go. The agricultural giant Cargill repeatedly idled its two terminals on the Mississippi last fall for lack of work, and in November, workers stayed home unpaid, a nearly unheard-of occurrence. Between September and December, soybean volumes were down 40 percent on the year.Here in Iowa, farmers unloaded their soybeans when they could at low prices. Extreme weather left many farmers with a low-quality product that they thought wouldnt store well. Theyre sitting on their corn with the hope of better prices down the road. Hog producers are losing about $18 a hog, with cumulative losses in the millions, if not billions.During the farm crisis of the 1980s, farm families wondered how they were going to keep the farm afloat. The story is the same in 2019. Farm real estate listings have doubled; in Minnesota, there are more than double the number of farm bankruptcies than there were in the same period in 2013 and 2014. Dairy associations are publicizing suicide hotlines. Bankers have publicly stated that the rural economy is suffering because of bad policy from the White House.Thats just the tariffs. A banker friend bent my ear the other day to lay out the other hammer being brought down on our farmers: the Trump shutdown.Remember the $12 billion tariff bailout fund  a Band-Aid on a shotgun wound, but better than nothing? With the shutdown, the president cut that off. The bailout is called the Market Facilitation Program, run by the Agriculture Departments Farm Service Agency, and the offices that accept applications and handle payments are closed. Many producers held off signing up before the end of 2018 because they didnt want to declare the income this year on tax returns. For now, they are frozen out.Any farmers who have a loan with the Farm Service Agency will have the agencys name on any checks they get in the mail for sales of grain or cattle. Now no one at the agency can sign their name on those checks, and they cant be deposited until that happens. Those farmers cant get money to pay bills.Farmers who are in financial straits cant apply for a guaranteed loan from their local bank, because they have to look for F.S.A. concurrence when decisions are made on one. When banks cant get the confirmation, farmers cant get loans.Money isnt moving, and when farmers arent moving their money, whole towns suffer. Thousands of towns. All across America.Mark White has been farming for 40 years. His farm, which his brother rents and operates, is just south of the county line, near Williamson, Iowa, population of approximately 150. Mr. White works with Smith Fertilizer and Grain, a full-service fertilizer, feed supplier and grain-receiving facility. The biggest problem is immediate cash flow, he said. It doesnt necessarily mean that they are broke  or headed out of business  but they are having to use some equity that they have built up over the years to survive a downturn like we are in. Using equity, he said, means putting land or equipment up as collateral against operating notes, or past operating notes they cant pay off. He says this can be risky and is taking a step backward. Younger farmers and farmers who rent and dont own land are more at risk.These less secure farmers with cash flow problems are the ones most at risk during the shutdown because they cant cash F.S.A. checks or get loans. Farming for most is a losing proposition already because of low commodity prices  the tariffs and shutdown hurt even more. Many Americans cant afford to lose their monthly paychecks  and that includes farmers. My banker friend tells me we lost a generation of farmers because of the farm crisis of the 1980s, and if it gets much worse, she fears we could see it again.Most rural American farms are not big corporate operations. The most recent available farm census data, from 2012, shows that Iowa has nearly 89,000 farms, and 57 percent are small farms under 180 acres. Generally, to make a living on farm income, operations of at least 225 to 750 acres or more are needed. Of the farmers that Mr. Trumps tariffs and shutdown are hurting, about 80 percent are family businesses.So big ag  the only farmers with the capital to survive over the long term  profits from the blundering crisis. If and when small farmers fail, larger operations can swoop in and buy up the land at fire sale prices. The large seed and other input companies would rather deliver product to one farm in a township than 27. Its not all President Trumps doing. He has only accelerated a trajectory that now seems inevitable  fewer and larger farms.Yet farmers are smart. This mess is also about politics, and if Democratic presidential candidates pay attention, they might have an opening at least in some parts of rural America. For example, Elizabeth Warren was recently in Iowa. She began her campaign in the heart of Trump country, western Iowa  in Sioux City and Storm Lake. She showed us that she is willing to get manure on her boots. Her message resonated  her humble beginnings in a time when a family of three could make a living off one minimum-wage job and send a kid to college, at a time when America worked for the average Jane or Joe, not just for corporate profiteers.Many more Democrats will follow this year. They should spend a lot of time talking to farmers and be bold in their proposals.The consequences of failed Republican policy wont damage only President Trump. His staggering failures in farm country will have an impact on every Republican member of Congress in every state with a rural agricultural constituency  which means every state, period. Congressional Republicans have complained, but they have not acted to stop the president when they have had the power to do so.Sure, some farmers will follow President Trump to hell and back. They will be cheerleading him from their jobs in town, though, as they surely wont be farmers anymore.Others wont. Maybe theyll be voting for Democrats.Robert Leonard is the news director for the Iowa radio stations KNIA and KRLS.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Lisa LererHi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. Im Lisa Lerer, your host.[Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.]On Saturday, Senator Kirsten Gillibrand made a campaign stop at Kikis Chicken and Waffles in Columbia, S.C., and asked whether to use fingers or forks to eat the fried chicken. The mockery that followed online? Sexism, cried social media!The next day, Senator Amy Klobuchar announced her presidential bid in the midst of a Minnesota snow shower  and a blizzard of stories describing her demanding behavior as a boss. Asha Harris, a voter at the rally, told a Times reporter that the critique was plainly sexist.The historic number of women running for president was bound to change the dynamics of the contest. And now, just a couple months in, were seeing one way that could take shape: sexism as a shield, fending off criticism that, on its surface, would seem nongendered.The risk-benefit calculation by operatives has totally shifted because of this moment, and because of the alertness, particularly among women in the Democratic electorate, on this issue, said Kelly Dittmar, a scholar at the Center for American Women and Politics at Rutgers University.For more than a decade, Hillary Clinton was the only model for how to deal with gender in a presidential race. Now, Mrs. Clintons loss, coupled with the #MeToo Movement, has forced a national conversation about gender and power, priming Democratic primary voters to think differently about leadership and the barriers women face in politics.Part of whats happening is simply a reflection of something Americans have never seen before: Six different women using different campaign strategies to win the White House.It makes sense that a greater number of female candidates would provide more opportunities for sexist treatment. My colleague Maggie Astor has a terrific piece today explaining all the challenging and frequently implicit ways gender bias can manifest on the campaign trail.But, at the same time, for the first time in the history of presidential campaigns, gender is likely more of an advantage than it is a liability. That means it can be leveraged in ways weve never before seen on a national stage.Even before Ms. Klobuchar formally entered the race, her aides were already telling reporters that accounts of her difficult management style played into sexist ideas about women and power. Aides and supporters of Senator Kamala Harris argue there is gender bias in the view that her past relationship with Willie Brown, a powerful California politician who was married when the two dated, could be a liability.So where does this leave the voters trying to sort through these claims of sexism? Jennifer L. Lawless, a political scientist at the University of Virginia, suggests a three-pronged test:1. Would the same allegations be leveled against a man?2. Do they only matter because shes a woman?3. Is the same criticism being leveled at multiple female candidates?By Dr. Lawlesss assessment, the more serious problem for Ms. Klobuchar isnt that the stories about her bad treatment of her staff tap into sexist tropes  its that they conflict with her Minnesota nice public persona.Now, having the very first question Ms. Gillibrand face as a candidate be about her likability? Thats sexist. But, Dr. Lawless says, making fun of her fried chicken cluelessness is just another manifestation of a political rule as old as photography: Never eat ugly.Just ask Gerald Ford (tamale with wrapper), John Kerry (Swiss cheese on cheesesteak), or that photo of Michael Bloomberg and pizza we highlighted just a couple weeks ago.____________________Drop us a line!We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? Well try to answer it. Have a comment? Were all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.____________________We were curious to know more about H.R. 1, a voting and ethics bill making waves in Congress. So we asked Catie Edmondson, who covers Capitol Hill for The Times, to break it down for us:The first major piece of legislation House Democrats unveiled in their new majority is an ambitious, 600-page bill that reads like an anthology of liberal anti-corruption proposals. Intended to show voters that they are following through on their campaign pledges, the bill, called H.R. 1, has three overarching goals: to dismantle barriers to the ballot box, end big money in politics, and impose stricter ethics rules on government officials.It also, unsurprisingly, takes a few jabs at the president.The bill is so sprawling that even the SparkNotes version put out by its lead sponsor, Representative John Sarbanes, Democrat of Maryland, is a whopping 22 pages, divided into sections including Voting, Campaign Finance, and Ethics. Here are a few of the highlights.H.R. 1 would: Automatically register citizens to vote. Require states to allow voters to register on the day of a federal election. Make Election Day a federal employment holiday. Require presidents and candidates for the nations highest offices to release their tax returns. Create a matching system for small donations to campaigns. Ban campaign contributions from corporations with significant foreign ownership.Opposing the bill has become a pet interest of Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican majority leader. (He has dubbed it the Democrat Politician Protection Act and mused publicly that much of it is probably unconstitutional.) So it faces dim prospects in the Senate, making H.R. 1, as one of my colleagues put it, less a legislative vehicle than a political platform for the Democrats heading into 2020.Even if little, or none, of it becomes law, Democrats will use it to draw a stark contrast between their values and the presidents  and to drive a wedge between the occupant in the Oval Office and voters.[Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.]____________________ A former Miss Costa Rica says a former president and Nobel laureate attacked her. Telling her story was hard. Finding a lawyer to take the case was harder. A New York City Councilman said the Council was controlled by the homosexual community. Now hes facing calls to resign. Its as if Donald Trump decided to build a Trump Tower in his mothers fishing village of Tong on the Isle of Lewis in Scotland. From Pacific Standard, the story of a changing China and a billionaire who moved home.____________________Check out this bulldog crushing the agility course at the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show. Ru-dy! Ru-dy!_____________________Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world.Is there anything you think were missing? Anything you want to see more of? Wed love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Motoko Rich and David E. SangerTOKYO  Kim Jong-un, North Koreas leader, said Tuesday that he was willing to have a second summit meeting with President Trump, but he paired the offer with a threat that if international sanctions against his country were not lifted, the North would have no choice but to return to nuclear confrontation.I am willing to meet the United States president at any time for the betterment of our international community, Mr. Kim said in his New Years Day speech, broadcast on North Koreas state-run television. However, if the United States does not keep its promise in our international community and misinterprets our patience and intention and continues with the sanctions, then we have no choice for the sake of our national interest and peace of the Korean Peninsula but to come up with new initiatives and new measures.Wearing a suit and tie and sitting in an overstuffed leather armchair in a book-lined room, Mr. Kim offered a largely motivational speech about the need to strengthen the North Korean economy. But he took the opportunity to reiterate a demand that South Korea cease all military drills with other foreign sources.Those should be completely stopped, Mr. Kim said. That is our stance.There were sparse direct references in the speech to denuclearization. But Mr. Kim said the country would not be willing to take further steps toward removing its nuclear weapons unless the United States reciprocated.The statements and agreements after the summit with the United States were that we are going toward complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, and that is my resolute commitment, he said. We will not make nuclear weapons and we will not proliferate nuclear weapons, and I have said this, and I will say this again now.If the United States can show corresponding measures, the relationship between the two countries will, through many processes, accelerate for the better. But if the counterpart continues with its past habits, it wont be good, but I hope they stop this.Mr. Kim also indicated that the North wanted a peace declaration formally ending the Korean War.In declaring that he would not make nuclear weapons, Mr. Kim was going further than anything he said at his summit meeting with Mr. Trump in Singapore in June. North Korea made no explicit promise to freeze its program, and American intelligence officials have said that they believe North Korea has continued to produce the fuel for nuclear weapons  and likely the weapons themselves.The distinction is a relatively minor one, because once the fuel is produced, fashioning it into weapons is no longer much of a challenge, as the North has proved through a series of nuclear tests that ended 13 months ago.Mr. Kims statement about proliferation addressed one of the major issues for Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and his North Korea envoy, Stephen E. Biegun. They have expressed concerns about the Norths long record of selling nuclear technology abroad  most famously to Syria, which built a full nuclear reactor based on a North Korean design and parts. It was destroyed by Israel in 2007.Mr. Kims demand that the United States begin to lift sanctions before North Korea takes any steps toward dismantling its nuclear infrastructure is essentially a return to the state of affairs when Mr. Trump took office early in 2017.Mr. Trump entered the White House vowing he would not repeat the mistakes of his predecessors, who lifted some sanctions. Mr. Trump and his aides said the North would have to dismantle everything first and trust that sanctions would be lifted later.Since the Singapore meeting, Mr. Trump has occasionally seemed to waver on the question of lifting some sanctions before the North dismantles its facilities and gives up its weapons and missiles. Now, with Mr. Kims demand, he must decide whether to back down  and take steps similar to those of his predecessors.Analysts noted that Mr. Kim did not specify what exactly he wanted the Trump administration to do but was suggesting that removing some sanctions and moving toward a formal peace declaration to end the Korean War might prod the North to take certain steps toward denuclearization.Previous public and private comments from Kim and other North Korean officials suggest they would be willing to decommission the Yongbyon nuclear complex under expert supervision, said Daryl G. Kimball, executive director of the Arms Control Association, referring to a plutonium reactor, spent fuel reprocessing facility and uranium enrichment plant.Mr. Kims remarks followed a recent escalation of rhetoric from the North suggesting that he was losing patience with the diplomatic stalemate and the sanctions that have remained in place since his meeting with Mr. Trump in Singapore.This month, the North Korean Foreign Ministry warned that the United States continued hard-line sanctions policy might block any chance of denuclearizing the country. A few days later, the North said through its official news agency that it would not dismantle its nuclear weapons program until the United States agreed to shrink its military presence on and near the Korean Peninsula.North Korea is very good at playing hard to get. They are always saying, We could go back to our old ways, said Lee Sung-yoon, a professor of Korean studies at the Fletcher School at Tufts University.Mr. Lee, who said Mr. Kim had shrewdly tempered his rhetoric, said he did not believe the North Korean leader intended to abandon his nuclear weapons program.He came across as more peace-prone, reform-minded and denuclearization-prone, which I think is a ruse, Mr. Lee said. A nation doesnt spend 50 years in building the bomb and just give it up for the empty privilege of shaking hands with the U.S. president. But its in his interest to play this game for the time being.Mr. Trump has indicated that he wants to meet Mr. Kim for a second summit meeting early in the year.In his New Years speech, Mr. Kim praised the progress toward further cooperation that the two Koreas had made over the previous year. North and South Koreans have to continue resolving our tensions in the skies, waters and land in and surrounding the peninsula, through carrying out practical measures based on already agreed upon inter-Korean agreements, he said.He also suggested that South Koreans who once worked at the Kaesong industrial complex, which was run jointly by North and South Korea and shut down in 2016, should be allowed to return. The North, he suggested, would accommodate them unconditionally.We should all be proud that we are moving together, North and South, as Koreans, he said. We should expand our inter-Korean cooperation so that we can actually see changes.Over the weekend, Mr. Kim sent a rare personal letter to the South Korean leader, Moon Jae-in, saying he hoped to visit Seoul in the new year. Analysts expect he may also try to meet Chinas president, Xi Jinping, and Russias president, Vladimir V. Putin.Last year, Mr. Kims New Years Day speech ushered in hopes for a breakthrough in the geopolitical standoff that had kept the region on edge for months, as he offered to send a delegation to the Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea, in February. Those hopes were realized at the opening ceremony when athletes from the two Koreas marched into the stadium together in a remarkable show of unity.One of the distinguishing factors of this years speech was its more casual delivery. By giving the speech live and in what appeared to be his library, Mr. Kim projected a more relaxed demeanor that was largely intended for his domestic audience.Mr. Kims presentation to his own people was a leader whos authoritative and decisive, but also very comfortable and familiar, said Jean H. Lee, a former Associated Press bureau chief in Pyongyang who is now a global fellow at the Woodrow Wilson Center in Washington.Motoko Rich reported from Tokyo, and David E. Sanger from Washington. Su-Hyun Lee contributed reporting from Seoul, South Korea.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Iliana MagraA supporter of President Trump attacked a BBC camera operator during a presidential rally in El Paso on Monday night, the broadcaster said.BBC cameraman Ron Skeans was violently pushed and shoved by a member of the crowd while covering a President Trump rally in Texas last night, a BBC spokesman said in an email on Tuesday.Mr. Trump was in El Paso to increase support for his proposed wall on the United States border with Mexico, in his most significant rally since his funding demands for the project temporarily shut down the government. The president was talking about a decline in attacks on African, Hispanic, and Asian-Americans when the cameraman was pushed.A 36-second clip from Mr. Skeanss camera before, during and after the shove was widely circulated on social media on Tuesday. It shows a protester in a red Make America Great Again cap, who has not been publicly identified, shouting at members of the media as he is restrained by someone who appears to be part of the events security team.As the man struggles, the crowds chant shifts from U.S.A. to Let him go.Gary ODonoghue, the BBC Washington correspondent who covered the El Paso rally on Monday, said the supporter had tried to smash the camera before security escorted him out of the venue.The BBC condemned the attack. It is clearly unacceptable for any of our staff to be attacked for doing their job, the statement on Tuesday said. The president could see what was happening and checked that all was O.K., the statement added.The White House Correspondents Association also condemned the crowd members actions, saying in a statement that the president of the United States should make absolutely clear to his supporters that violence against reporters is unacceptable.On Tuesday afternoon, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, released a statement that said President Trump condemns all acts of violence against any individual or group of people  including members of the press.She added, We ask that anyone attending an event do so in a peaceful and respectful manner.Since the beginning of his presidency, Mr. Trump has had a strained relationship with the news media. He has repeatedly called journalists the enemy of the people, and he used the term Fake News on Twitter at least 174 times last year alone.In August, experts from the United Nations and a human rights body condemned the presidents attacks on the news media and warned that they could incite violence against journalists.His attacks are strategic, designed to undermine confidence in reporting and raise doubts about verifiable facts, David Kaye, the United Nations special rapporteur on freedom of expression, and Edison Lanza, who holds the same position at the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, said in a statement.We are especially concerned that these attacks increase the risk of journalists being targeted with violence, they said.During an interview last month, the publisher of The New York Times, A. G. Sulzberger, asked Mr. Trump about potentially dangerous rhetoric against journalists. In his response, Mr. Trump took credit for popularizing the term fake news but said he was not responsible for how it was used by other governments.Mr. Skeans told the BBC that he didnt know what was going on when he was violently shoved on Monday, but that he was now fine.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Choe Sang-HunSEOUL, South Korea  South Korean officials on Monday indicated that President Trump and North Koreas leader, Kim Jong-un, could agree on a joint political statement declaring an end to the 1950-53 Korean War when they meet in Hanoi, Vietnam, this week.The possibility is open, said Kim Eui-kyeom, a spokesman for South Koreas president, Moon Jae-in, referring to the results expected from the Trump-Kim summit meeting scheduled for Wednesday and Thursday. We still dont know exactly what format the end-of-war declaration will take, but there is an ample possibility of North Korea and the United States agreeing to such a declaration.Mr. Moon has strongly advocated an end-of-war declaration to build trust between North Korea and the United States and to prod the North to move toward giving up its nuclear weapons. The North and the United States have remained technically at war since the Korean War was halted in a truce in 1953, and Washington still keeps 28,500 troops in South Korea to prevent it from rekindling.Until now, South Korean officials, who are closely monitoring pre-summit meeting negotiations between North Korea and the United States, had sounded skeptical that Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim would agree to an end-of-war declaration during their Hanoi meeting. The remarks by the South Korean spokesman indicated such a declaration was now being seriously discussed as Mr. Trump seeks to encourage Mr. Kim to take steps toward denuclearization.As Mr. Kim arrived in Vietnam Tuesday morning by train, North Korean and American negotiators were already there trying to hammer out an agenda and other details for the summit meeting, including what first steps toward denuclearization North Korea should take. North Korea has offered to dismantle its nuclear complex in Yongbyon, which houses plutonium and uranium enrichment facilities, but said it would do so only when the United States took corresponding trust-building measures.When they met for the first time, in June in Singapore, Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim produced a vaguely worded agreement to build new relations between their countries, and to work toward a peace regime and complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula  but the agreement was short on specifics.Subsequent talks between the two countries have stalled over how to carry out the Singapore deal, as North Korea insisted that the United States must first ease sanctions.But Washington has been reluctant to do so, since sanctions are the strongest leverage it has on the impoverished country. On Sunday, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said the United States had no intention of easing the United Nations Security Councils toughest sanctions against North Korea until it achieved a full, verifiable denuclearization of North Korea. He added, however, that the United States might relax other restrictions.The core economic sanctions, the sanctions that prevent countries from conducting trade, creating wealth for North Korea, those sanctions are definitely going to remain in place, Mr. Pompeo told CNN. Weve said consistently full, verified denuclearization  thats the standard for relieving those sanctions.Instead, American negotiators have been studying noneconomic incentives for the North, such as an end-of-war declaration or the exchange of liaison offices between Pyongyang and Washington, according to South Korean officials familiar with Washingtons talks with North Korean officials.But it remained unclear whether an end-of-war declaration would persuade the North to commit to the kind of serious steps toward denuclearization that Washington demands, according to South Korean analysts and officials, who say the North will likely calibrate its commitment to denuclearization on whether Mr. Trump grants sanctions relief, the Norths top priority.American and South Korean analysts have expressed fear that declaring an end to the war would give Mr. Kim reason to demand that the United States withdraw its 28,500 troops from the South while the North remains a nuclear-armed state.But South Korean officials said the declaration would be merely a political statement that would give the North Koreans some comfort. North Korea has long argued that it was forced to develop a nuclear deterrent because of American hostility, and that it would keep that deterrent until it felt safe from American aggression.Mr. Kim, the South Korean presidential spokesman, said on Monday that an end-of-war declaration would not replace the 1953 Korean Armistice Agreement but rather serve as an entrance point for starting complex negotiations for replacing the armistice with a formal peace treaty. Mr. Moon has also said that an end-of-war declaration should not affect the American military presence in South Korea or his countrys alliance with the United States, which he said served a broader role in regional security.South Korea had earlier hoped that an end-of-war declaration would be made in the presence of Mr. Moon and even Chinas president, Xi Jinping. China fought for North Korea during the war, while American troops fought alongside the South Koreans.But on Monday, Mr. Kim, the presidential spokesman, said that unlike a peace treaty that should be negotiated among the two Koreas, the United States and China, a bilateral end-of-war declaration between the United States and North Korea could be enough. The United States and South Korea now have formal diplomatic ties with China, making such a declaration irrelevant to Beijing. South and North Korea have signed military and other agreements in recent months that Mr. Kim said were tantamount to a nonaggression treaty.The North and the United States are the only ones remaining, and if the two declare an end to the war, it will mean that all the four countries that fought war on the Korean Peninsula have declared an end to war, he said. Our government welcomes an end-of-war declaration no matter what format it might take, as long as it helps encourage and advance denuclearization.But the spokesman said an end-of-war declaration is different from the peace treaty. The peace treaty could be signed only at the end stage of denuclearization, he said.Mr. Moon on Monday urged his people to prepare for a possible fundamental shift in relations on the Korean Peninsula after the Hanoi summit meeting.If the upcoming summit produces results, now is the real beginning, he was quoted as saying during a meeting with his senior presidential staff. Standing at the center of history, not the periphery, we will take the lead in preparing for a new Korean Peninsula regime  one that is moving from war and confrontation toward peace and harmony, and from factionalism and ideology toward economic prosperity.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Nicholas Casey, Christoph Koettl and Deborah AcostaCCUTA, Colombia  The narrative seemed to fit Venezuelas authoritarian rule: Security forces, on the order of President Nicols Maduro, had torched a convoy of humanitarian aid as millions in his country were suffering from illness and hunger.Vice President Mike Pence wrote that the tyrant in Caracas danced as his henchmen burned food & medicine. The State Department released a video saying Mr. Maduro had ordered the trucks burned. And Venezuelas opposition held up the images of the burning aid, reproduced on dozens of news sites and television screens throughout Latin America, as evidence of Mr. Maduros cruelty.But there is a problem: The opposition itself, not Mr. Maduros men, appears to have set the cargo alight accidentally.Unpublished footage obtained by The New York Times and previously released tapes  including footage released by the Colombian government, which has blamed Mr. Maduro for the fire  allowed for a reconstruction of the incident. It suggests that a Molotov cocktail thrown by an antigovernment protester was the most likely trigger for the blaze.At one point, a homemade bomb made from a bottle is hurled toward the police, who were blocking a bridge connecting Colombia and Venezuela to prevent the aid trucks from getting through.But the rag used to light the Molotov cocktail separates from the bottle, flying toward the aid truck instead.Half a minute later, that truck is in flames.The same protester can be seen 20 minutes earlier, in a different video, hitting another truck with a Molotov cocktail, without setting it on fire.The burning of the aid last month has led to broad condemnation of the Venezuelan government.More than three million people have fled the country because of the humanitarian crisis caused by Mr. Maduros mismanagement of the economy. Political opponents who have remained in the country face repression by his security forces, with many jailed, tortured or forced into exile. Many demonstrators have been killed and even more injured during street protests.Many of Mr. Maduros critics claim that he ordered medication set on fire during the border standoff  even though many of his people have died of medicine shortages in hospitals.Yet the claim about a shipment of medicine, too, appears to be unsubstantiated, according to videos and interviews.The United States Agency for International Development, the principal supplier of the aid at the bridge, did not list medicine among its donations. A top opposition official on the bridge that day told The Times that the burned shipment contained medical supplies like face masks and gloves, but not medicine. And video clips reviewed by The Times show some of the boxes contained hygiene kits, which the Americans identified as containing supplies like soap and toothpaste.Yet the claim that Mr. Maduro burned medicine has persisted.Maduro has lied about the humanitarian crisis in Venezuela, he contracts criminals to burn food and medicine intended for the Venezuelan people, wrote John R. Bolton, President Trumps national security adviser, in a message posted on Twitter on March 2.After being contacted by The Times about these claims, American officials released a statement describing how the fire began more cautiously.Eyewitness accounts indicate that the fire started when Maduros forces violently blocked the entry of humanitarian assistance, the statement said. It did not specify that Mr. Maduros forces lit the fire.American officials also noted that, whatever the circumstances, they held Mr. Maduro responsible because he blocked the aid trucks that day, punishing Venezuelans in need.Maduro is responsible for creating the conditions for violence, said Garrett Marquis, a spokesman for the National Security Council. His thugs denied the entry of tons of food and medicine, while thousands of courageous volunteers sought to safeguard and deliver aid to Venezuelan families.The aid shipment created a showdown unlike any on the border between Colombia and Venezuela in years.On Feb. 23, Venezuelas opposition planned to pierce a military blockade by Mr. Maduro, hoping that the presidents security forces would break with him rather than stop much-needed aid. They argued that a cascade of defections in the military would follow, eventually toppling the government.Instead, Mr. Maduros security forces, along with government-aligned gangs, attacked protesters, who came armed with rocks and Molotov cocktails. One of the aid trucks burned in the melee, igniting the bitter war of words over who was responsible.Mr. Maduros government has also made unsubstantiated claims, starting with its longstanding insistence that there are no food shortages in Venezuela.It also claimed that the aid shipment contained expired supplies or American weapons.But one claim that appears to be backed up by video footage is that the protesters started the fire.They tried a false flag operation, that supposedly the people of Venezuela had burned a truck carrying rotten food  no, no, no  it was they themselves, it was the criminals of Ivn Duque, Mr. Maduro told a crowd, referring to Colombias president.The day of the convoy, Colombias government quickly became a chief booster of the theory that Mr. Maduro had been behind the fire. Vice President Marta Luca Ramrez posted a picture of what she said was one of the trucks incinerated by gangs by order of Maduro.After the truck was destroyed, the Colombian government sent CCTV footage from the bridge to American officials and Colombian journalists, according to officials and journalists who received them.The footage was edited to show circles around Venezuelan security forces throwing tear gas canisters, which explode on impact, toward the aid convoy. Subsequent images show the truck erupting into smoke, implying that it was the Venezuelan officials who were responsible.But the footage distributed by the Colombian government removes the 13-minute period before the fire begins. Officials from Mr. Duques office did not release the full video after repeated requests from The Times.Protesters who threw Molotov cocktails from the bridge insisted that Mr. Maduros forces, not their homemade bombs, set the fire.Junior Jos Quevedo, 23, said he had arrived at 7 a.m. that day and tried to talk policemen into allowing the aid to pass. But then another armed group came of colectivos, he said, referring to government-aligned gangs.Adalberto Rondn, another bomb thrower on the bridge that day, said it was national guardsmen who lit the fire.The same account was widely picked up that day by American officials.Each of the trucks burned by Maduro carried 20 tons of food and medicine, Senator Marco Rubio wrote on Twitter, repeating a claim posted by a Colombian news network that was on the scene. This is a crime and if international law means anything he must pay a high price for this.Contacted by The Times about the footage Saturday, a spokesman for Mr. Rubio did not address who burned the trucks, saying in a statement that Maduro bears full responsibility for the destruction of humanitarian aid.Juan Guaid, the leader of Venezuelas opposition, has fervently maintained that the aid contained medicine and that it was burned by Mr. Maduro as well.When contacted by The Times on Thursday about possible contradictory information on what the truck contained, Edward Rodrguez, a spokesman for Mr. Guaid, said he didnt have the exact information and referred questions to Gaby Arellano, a lawmaker in charge of the aid distribution.Ms. Arellano could not be reached for comment this past week. But when interviewed by The Times on the bridge shortly after the truck burned on Feb. 23, Ms. Arellano said the truck was not carrying any medicine.There were face masks, syringes, gloves, the things that you use in an operating room, she said.Ms. Arellano also said Mr. Maduros security forces had burned the shipment, with his forces throwing tear gas canisters that exploded on the vehicle.Tear gas bombs, when they fall they throw out a spark, she said. Since there were boxes, when the first one fell, it set everything on fire.Asked if it had been done on purpose, she said: There couldnt be any other reason, could there? The world is here, it was all recorded live by the media. Theres even videos where you can see it all happening.Nicholas Casey reported from Ccuta, and Christoph Koettl and Deborah Acosta from New York. Albinson Linares contributed reporting from Ccuta, and Anjali Singhvi from New York.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON  As the most diverse freshman class in history settles into the House of Representatives, newcomers like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Rashida Tlaib of Michigan have been racking up social media followers and soaking up the spotlight, liberal firebrands largely elected to safe Democratic seats.But overlooked in the hallway protests and often glowing news media coverage, a larger group of more centrist Democrats has arrived with a different agenda. And now, they are quietly asserting their influence as the partial government shutdown, which has left them scrambling to explain why 800,000 workers are still without pay, enters its fifth week.The centrists, elected to seats held last year by Republicans, delivered Democrats their House majority, and their re-elections will be critical to keeping the party in power. They include a sizable subset with backgrounds in military, intelligence and national security, and won by promising to work across the aisle and to end dysfunction in Washington. Now they are caught in the most dysfunctional situation of all  a record-breaking shutdown  and they are under pressure from constituents to do something about it.[The Latest: In White House Address, Trump Proposes DACA Deal in Exchange for Wall Funding]This past week, a group of freshmen in Trump-leaning districts convened a private strategy session to discuss how they could press Speaker Nancy Pelosi to reclaim the issue of border security for Democrats and to open the door to negotiations with President Trump. Some also aired their frustrations with Representative Hakeem Jeffries, the chairman of the Democratic caucus, who hosted a small dinner for freshmen from battleground districts.We have very real credibility on the border security issue, said Representative Jason Crow, Democrat of Colorado and a former Army ranger. I did two combat deployments to Afghanistan. Both of those were on the Afghan-Pakistan border interdicting drug and gun smuggling and insurgents coming across from Pakistan and the tribal regions. So I like to think I know a thing or two about border security, and you dont do it by building walls.Ms. Pelosi appears ready to listen. When Congress returns to Washington in the coming week, she is expected to bring up legislation that will include an additional $1 billion for border security measures, including 75 additional immigration judges and infrastructure improvements at ports of entry  though no money for Mr. Trumps cherished border wall.She is also weighing whether to propose a Democratic homeland security bill that could lay the foundation for talks with Mr. Trump  a step that would be a significant shift in strategy for the new majority, which has instead spent the past several weeks emphasizing the shutdowns emotional and financial toll on unpaid workers.As someone who worked on preserving the homeland her entire life, Im ready to talk about homeland security, said Representative Elissa Slotkin, Democrat of Michigan, a former Pentagon official who also served in the C.I.A., and who organized the strategy session. I dont think we need a wall from sea to shining sea. But am I willing to talk about more fencing and more drones and technology and radar and border agents? Absolutely.Of the roughly 60 new Democrats in Congress, two-thirds, including a tight-knit group of 10 who are either veterans or have national security experience, flipped Republican seats. They represent a very different face of the party: pragmatic moderates who believe they were elected not just to resist the president but also to cooperate with him where they can.Every single one of them ran on a platform of going out to Washington, shaking things up and getting things done, said Representative Cheri Bustos of Illinois, a member of Democratic leadership who focuses on electing Democrats in Trump districts. From the day they were sworn in, the government has been shut down, and they dont like it and the people they represent dont like it.Several of the freshman Democratic centrists, all members of a bipartisan group called the Problem Solvers Caucus, met with Mr. Trump at the White House this past week. Representative Abigail Spanberger of Virginia, a former C.I.A. operative who handled and recruited spies in Europe, said she told Mr. Trump that people in her district, including prison officials and Transportation Security Administration officers, are suffering. She said Mr. Trump did a surprising amount of listening.I cant speak for how he interpreted what we said, or how he listened to that information, she said, but it was a calm meeting. Most people spoke multiple times, and so I found that to be a positive thing.But while Democratic leaders understand the eagerness to quickly end the shutdown  a sentiment shared by Democrats across the philosophical spectrum  they are also urging caution, and sticking to their insistence that they will not negotiate with Mr. Trump on border security until the government is fully open.Its fair to say that the freshman members of Congress, particularly the veterans and national security professionals, were sent to Washington to solve problems, and they would like to resolve the issue of border security in a bipartisan way, Mr. Jeffries said. That is the position of the House Democratic caucus as well, but its just a question of timing and the Republican willingness to stop acting like wholly owned subsidiaries of the Trump administration and engage in a meaningful conversation.After just three weeks in Washington, many of the centrists say the partisan split in the Capitol is even worse than they had imagined, and some have been quietly reaching out to freshman Republicans to see if they can find a way to bridge the divide and end the shutdown.When I think about being deployed on an aircraft carrier and we are simultaneously launching strikes against terrorist targets in Iraq and Afghanistan and Im supervising the operation at the nuclear reactors, I dont turn to one of the operators next to me and say, Are you a Democrat or a Republican? said Representative Elaine Luria, Democrat of Virginia, who spent 20 years as a surface warfare officer and nuclear engineer in the Navy. Were all very frustrated by the partisanship.Ms. Slotkin, who was an acting assistant secretary of defense under former President Barack Obama, described what she called a lack of evidence-based planning to secure the border.If I was back at the Defense Department, we would look at an objective needs assessment for securing the border and we would build a budget to fund that security, and we would be negotiating on it, she said.But she said that when she asked senior House members if such a document existed, she was told that the White House had its needs assessment and Democrats had theirs  and that neither was truly objective.In talking points issued to Democrats, Ms. Pelosis office ticked off a list of items that the party favors as part of a plan for strong, smart, effective border security, including scanning technology at ports of entry to screen for drugs and weapons, drones and radar to spot migrants crossing illegally, filling more than 3,000 vacancies for customs officers and building up infrastructure at official border crossings.The service candidates, as the veterans and national security professionals call themselves, see themselves taking a leading role in articulating that vision.In addition to discussing the financial toll of the shutdown, Representative Mikie Sherrill of New Jersey, a former federal prosecutor and Navy pilot, said Democrats needed to start underlining the safety aspect as well: While we are arguing over border security, were not paying our Customs and Border Patrol agents, so were creating less security right now.But the emphasis on border security may not sit well with their more progressive colleagues, who are more apt to talk about abolishing the Immigrations and Customs Enforcement agency than stopping the flow of drugs at the southern border with Mexico.I dont think we need to try to out-border security the Republicans at this point with this president, said Corbin Trent, the communications director for Ms. Ocasio-Cortez. It makes more sense to focus on ways of creating an immigration system to bring people into this country to help build our economy and our society, rather than to help keep them out.But Ms. Slotkin said it was time for the voices of those who flipped districts to be heard.By the numbers, we should and do have a strong voice in the caucus, she said, adding, I think Alexandria has done a great job of attracting new young people into the political process and getting people engaged. I think thats a good thing. Do I think she always represents every freshman? No.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byMAGAZINEAn article this weekend about Mitch McConnell misstated the number of American troops in Afghanistan and the number of troops that President Trump said he would withdraw from the country. Seven thousand of 14,000 American troops in Afghanistan were going to be pulled out. It is not the case that only 7,000 troops were still deployed to Afghanistan.BOOK REVIEWA biographical note on Jan. 13 with a review of Mesha Marens Sugar Run misstated the title of the most recent novel by the reviewer, Charles Frazier. It is Varina, not Vienna.TRAVELThe Places to Go in 2019 special Travel section on Jan. 13 had several errors.The article on Los Angeles misstated when the Academy Museum of Motion Pictures is scheduled to open in that city. The museum will open in late 2019, not summer 2019. The article on Danang, Vietnam, misstated the location of the Cau Ron Dragon Bridge. It is in Danang, not in the hills above the city. The article about Dakar, Senegal, misspelled the surname of a Senegalese pop singer. He is Youssou NDour, not NDor. And the article on New York City misstated the number of steps in the structure known as New Yorks Staircase. It is 2,500, not 2,000.REAL ESTATEAn International Real Estate column last Sunday, about a property in Bogot, Colombia, misstated Santiago Rico Calderns job title. He is the managing director of Engel & Vlkers Bogot, not the sales director.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Jesse McKinley[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]After an overwhelming re-election win, a series of high-profile bill signings and a fearless proclamation of New York as the most progressive state in the nation, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo might have expected at least a brief honeymoon with his states voters.It was not to be, according to a poll released Monday morning that showed Mr. Cuomo tallying the lowest approval ratings in his more than eight years in office.In a survey of 778 registered voters, Siena College found that Mr. Cuomo has had a precipitous eight-point drop in his favorability rating, down to 43 percent from 51 percent last month. A full 50 percent of those polled had a unfavorable opinion of Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, up seven points from last month.And that may have been the good news: Mr. Cuomos job-performance rating was even worse, with just 35 percent of those surveyed saying he was doing a excellent or good job. Almost twice that  64 percent  said Mr. Cuomo was doing a fair or poor job, another sharp rise from January.Mr. Cuomo was not alone. Siena found that Senator Chuck Schumers favorability had also slipped six percentage points, to 47 percent; and 46 percent of those surveyed said they held an unfavorable view of New Yorks senior senator. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, who recently launched a presidential campaign, also saw her favorability slip, to 44 percent, though that is well above her unfavorability rating of 34 percent.On the question of job approval, Mr. Cuomo had similar ratings to a New York politician he usually rails against: President Trump.Indeed, while Mr. Cuomo had a 35 percent positive job-approval rating, Mr. Trump was close behind, with 33 percent of those polled rating the presidents performance as excellent or good. About 66 percent said the president was doing fair or poor.The results of the poll  which had a margin of error of 4.3 percentage points  led the Cuomo administration to break its usual habit of not commenting on surveys.Siena doesnt always get it right, and color us skeptical, said Rich Azzopardi, a senior adviser to Mr. Cuomo, noting the declines in Mr. Schumer and Ms. Gillibrands approval ratings. Weve had the most productive month in history that finally saw the passage of popular, long-stalled legislation and were going to continue to move New York forward.Indeed, the poll  conducted between Feb. 4 and Feb. 7  came on the heels of the passage of a raft of progressive legislation that Democrats had long desired, including stricter gun laws, increased voting rights and expanded abortion rights. (The New York Assembly and Senate  both now controlled by Democrats  have slightly better favorable than unfavorable ratings.)And while the bills addressing those issues were shown to be popular by the Siena poll  each had more support than disapproval  there were indications that the legislation may have upset certain voters and hurt Mr. Cuomo: Catholics, for instance, who oppose abortion rights, had an unfavorable opinion of Mr. Cuomo (53 percent), though he also fared similarly among Jewish and Protestant voters.Self-described liberals continued to have a strong opinion of the governor (62 percent) as did African-American voters (71 percent) and Latino voters (63 percent). But his ratings fell with Democrats, Republicans and independents, according to Siena.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Hwaida Saad and Edward WongBEIRUT, Lebanon  In tense meetings on Friday, United States Secretary of State Mike Pompeo pressed leaders of Lebanon to curb the growing power of Hezbollah, the political and military group supported by Iran that holds government posts and runs the health ministry.Lebanon and the Lebanese people face a choice: bravely move forward as an independent and proud nation or allow the dark ambitions of Iran and Hezbollah to dictate your future, he said while standing next to the foreign minister, Gebran Bassil, after an afternoon meeting. Mr. Pompeo added that it would take courage for Lebanon to stand up to what he called Hezbollahs criminality, terror, and threats.Mr. Bassil, who is an ally of Hezbollah, countered Mr. Pompeo in his own post-meeting statement, saying: For us, Hezbollah is a Lebanese party, not terrorists. Its members of parliament were elected by the Lebanese people, with high popular support.Mr. Pompeos meetings in Lebanon, which included sessions with President Michel Aoun and Prime Minister Saad Hariri, were bound to be awkward, since he had been announcing for days that his express purpose for going to Lebanon was to denounce Hezbollah and its allies in the government. It is rare for a countrys top diplomat to publicly declare that a visit is aimed at berating a government or a party within it.But Mr. Pompeos trip this week to the Middle East is mainly about Israel, where he spent two nights before flying to Beirut on Friday. His anti-Iran and anti-Hezbollah messages played well to many Israelis since Hezbollah has waged war on Israel before, and is seen as a major threat.Mr. Pompeos aggressive words could give a boost to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, an ally of the Trump administration who is running for re-election on April 9. Mr. Netanyahus support fell when the countrys attorney general announced last month that he intended to indict Mr. Netanyahu on bribery and other corruption charges.In another effort to boost Mr. Netanyahu, on Thursday, as Mr. Pompeo visited religious sites in Jerusalem, Mr. Trump said in a tweet that the United States should recognize Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights, a strategic strip of land that Israel seized from Syria in the Six Day War of 1967 and effectively annexed in 1981.Mr. Pompeo stood next to Mr. Netanyahu at a news conference and praised Mr. Trumps statement, saying, the people of Israel should know that the battles they fought, the lives they lost on that very ground were worthy and meaningful and important for all time.The Golan Heights is no longer the rallying cry in the Arab world that it once was, but there are Lebanese who are furious over Mr. Trumps move, and Hezbollah supports the government of Bashar al-Assad of Syria. So Mr. Trumps announcement added to the friction as Mr. Pompeo moved around Beirut.The speaker of Parliament, Nabih Berri, told Mr. Pompeo in their meeting that Lebanese leaders had concerns about the harsh American-led sanctions against Iran, which are affecting Hezbollah, according to the official National News Agency. He said that besides being in government now, Hezbollah was a legitimate resistance group, and the Lebanese resistance is because of the continuous Israeli occupation of Lebanese territories.Lebanon itself claims a sliver of the Golan Heights, and the Israeli army once occupied southern Lebanon, where Hezbollah has a strong presence.On Thursday, Mr. Aoun, the president, told reporters for Russian-owned news organizations that the siege on Hezbollah affects all Lebanese. Mr. Aoun said he plans to travel to Moscow. Russia and Iran are the two main allies of the Syrian government, and, along with Hezbollah, are fighting anti-Assad rebels.Mr. Aoun hosted Mr. Pompeo at the presidential palace in the midafternoon. The State Department said Mr. Pompeo told Mr. Aoun about the U.S. governments strong concerns over the role of Hezbollah and Iran in Lebanon and the region and the risks this poses to Lebanons security, stability and prosperity.Alain Aoun, a member of parliament who is part of the presidents bloc, had a measured response. Were dealing normally with the visit, we know the situation, we know the escalation against Hezbollah, he said in a telephone interview. Its a fact but were living with it.Some Lebanese had much harsher words for Mr. Pompeo. Al Akhbar News, a daily newspaper that often criticizes American and Israeli policies, ran a commentary on Friday with the headline, The filthy Yankee and his minions.Pompeo is here to incite Lebanese against each other, it said.On Friday, in what appeared to be another element in President Trumps campaign to bolster Mr. Netanyahu, officials in Washington announced new sanctions against individuals and groups in Iran with links to its nuclear program. They acted even though American intelligence agencies say Iran is not trying to build a nuclear weapon.Mr. Pompeo and his wife, Susan, plan to tour cultural sites in Lebanon on Saturday, including Christian ones. Mr. Pompeo is an evangelical Christian, and his beliefs have manifested themselves in notable ways on policy discussions. In a television interview in Jerusalem with the Christian Broadcasting Network, Mr. Pompeo was asked whether Mr. Trump was put on earth as a modern-day Queen Esther, who saved the Jews from a Persian official in ancient times. (The reference is to current tensions between Israel and Iran.)As a Christian, I certainly believe thats possible, Mr. Pompeo said.Hwaida Saad reported from Beirut and Edward Wong from Jerusalem. Ben Hubbard contributed reporting from Erbil, Iraq.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Julian E. Barnes and Matthew RosenbergWASHINGTON  President Trumps efforts to hide his conversations with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and new details about the F.B.I. inquiry into his ties to Moscow have intensified debate over his relationship with Russia, adding fuel to Democrats budding investigations of his presidency and potentially setting up a clash between the White House and Congress.Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, who now leads the Intelligence Committee as part of the new Democratic House majority, implored his Republican colleagues Sunday to support his effort to obtain notes or testimony from the interpreter in one of the private meetings between Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin.Will they join us now? Mr. Schiff wrote on Twitter. Shouldnt we find out whether our president is really putting America first?The administration appears unlikely to acquiesce to such a demand without a fight.Mr. Trump has repeatedly withheld details of his conversations with Mr. Putin, according to current and former American officials, a practice that has left officials blind to the dynamic between the two leaders and intensified questions within the administration over the presidents actions.That development, first reported by The Washington Post, followed a report in The New York Times that the F.B.I. had earlier begun a counterintelligence investigation on Mr. Trump to see whether he had been influenced by Russia when he fired James B. Comey as F.B.I. director in 2017.On Sunday, congressional Democrats said the steps Mr. Trump took to keep his conversations secret brought forth uncomfortable questions about the relations between the two men and why the American president echoed some of Mr. Putins positions.Why is he so chummy with Vladimir Putin, this man who is a former K.G.B. agent, never been a friend to the United States, invaded our allies, threatens us around the world and tries his damnedest to undermine our elections? Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, said on ABCs This Week. Why is this President Trumps best buddy? I dont get it.Mr. Trump went so far as to take the notes from the interpreter who worked with him during a private meeting with Mr. Putin at the 2017 Group of 20 meeting in Hamburg, Germany.A former senior administration official said a number of top figures in the administration sought in the hours and days after the meeting to find out details of what Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin had discussed. But Mr. Trump waved off their queries, leaving the officials to rely solely on a brief readout that Rex W. Tillerson, the secretary of state at the time, had provided to the news media, according to the former official.Several administration officials asked the interpreter what had been discussed. But the interpreter told them that the president had taken the notes after the meeting, and had instructed the translator not to discuss the meeting, the former official said.Last year both House and Senate Democrats called on Mr. Trumps interpreters to testify on the presidents meetings with Mr. Putin, including the leaders July summit meeting in Helsinki, Finland. Mr. Trumps news conference in Helsinki, in which he questioned his own intelligence agencies conclusion that Russia sought to influence the 2016 election, prompted bipartisan criticism.Mr. Trumps failure to allow other officials into the room or share notes of the meeting has become something of a Rorschach test inside the government.For opponents of the president, there are no innocent explanations for Mr. Trumps actions, which are possible evidence that Mr. Trump has colluded with Russia, a question at the heart of the special counsel inquiry. For supporters, Mr. Trumps actions are evidence that he must go to extreme lengths to prevent leaks and is a nontraditional politician pursuing new approaches to old problems.Republicans defended Mr. Trump on Sunday. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo told CBSs Face the Nation that any notion the president was a threat to American security is absolutely ludicrous.Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the House minority leader, defended Mr. Trumps choice to talk privately with Mr. Putin or other leaders.I know what the president likes to do, Mr. McCarthy said on Face the Nation. He likes to create a personal relationship, build that relationship, even rebuild that relationship, like he does with other world leaders around.The F.B.I. counterintelligence investigation into Mr. Trumps ties to Russia was taken over by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel. While it is not clear what Mr. Mueller has done with the investigation, there are some clues that he has pursued at least parts of it.While many of the questions Mr. Mueller submitted to Mr. Trump were focused on accusations of obstruction of justice against the president, others had to do with the presidents relationship with Russia.Mr. Mueller asked Mr. Trump whether he had any discussions during the campaign about any meetings with Mr. Putin and whether he spoke to others about American sanctions against Russia.While Mr. Trump did not answer Mr. Muellers questions about obstruction, he did answer the questions about Russia, although what the president said is not known.The revelation about the earlier F.B.I. counterintelligence investigation prompted Republicans to renew their criticism of the bureau.Senator Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican and fierce defender of Mr. Trump, told Fox News he was going to ask Christopher A. Wray, the F.B.I. director, if the bureau had begun a counterintelligence investigation of Mr. Trump.Mr. Graham said there should be checks inside the bureau to prevent such an investigation.I find it astonishing, and to me, it tells me a lot about the people running the F.B.I., Mr. Graham said. I dont trust them as far as I throw them.As Democrats press ahead in their investigation of Mr. Trumps meetings with Mr. Putin, it is not clear what information they will be able to extract from the White House.There are no reports inside the government on what Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin discussed in their meetings, current and former officials said.Without official detailed notes about Mr. Trumps conversations, senior officials in the administration have had to rely on intelligence reports about what the Russians were saying to one another after the meeting. There are limits to what officials could glean from the intelligence, current and former officials said. And the Russians could hardly be considered reliable narrators, even with one another.While that frustrated some in the government, the former senior administration official said he was not unsympathetic to Mr. Trumps predicament. The official said the president feared that whatever he said to Mr. Putin would be twisted by critics.But because access to meetings and transcripts was tightened after early leaks, some officials believed Mr. Trumps decision to take the notes was too extreme and raised questions about what he was trying to keep private, the former official said.Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Nicholas FandosWASHINGTON  With the government shutdown over for now, the 116th Congress will hit reset this week, showcasing a Democratic agenda in the House that was overshadowed by the struggle to reopen the government and furnishing both chambers with early opportunities to test whether divided government can produce results.The House, which spent weeks passing futile bills to reopen the government, will turn to legislation higher on the Democrats priority list, including a bill to raise pay for civilian federal employees. Leading Democrats also plan to reintroduce a marquee bill to close the pay gap between men and women that they have fought to enact for years.In the Senate, Republicans will try to push through a bipartisan Middle East policy bill that includes a disputed provision targeting the movement to boycott, divest from and sanction Israel. With the measure, Republicans will test for fractures in the resurgent Democratic Party, where Palestinian rights activists have found new voices in House freshmen such as Rashida Tlaib of Michigan and Ilhan Omar of Minnesota.And in both chambers, lawmakers have teed up a high-impact lineup of hearings  effectively the first of the year. House Democrats will zero in on the cost to the military of President Trumps election-eve troop deployments to the border and begin to consider their ambitious legislation to expand voting rights, make political giving more transparent and do away with partisan gerrymandering.Senators will press the leaders of the nations intelligence services on the status of global threats, kick off a push to search for common ground on cutting prescription drug prices and begin to advance dozens of Mr. Trumps nominees, including his pick for attorney general, William P. Barr.We have a lot of different things we have to deal with, said Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, which will hold the first hearing on Democrats ambitious elections bill on Tuesday. The shutdown slowed things down somewhat, probably by a couple weeks. There is only so much time and attention people can give in a day.Looming over all of this action will be the border wall fight.Mr. Trump is threatening to shut down the government again in less than three weeks if Congress cannot reach a deal that provides him money for a wall along the southwestern border, and Democrats and Republicans will enter formal negotiations this week to see if they can reach a compromise on border-security funding levels and what constitutes a wall.If youre the president of the United States, and you know that you have to defend the nation, do you want to shut the government down? No, Mick Mulvaney, the White House chief of staff, said on CBSs Face the Nation. Do you want to declare a national emergency? No. But you do need and want to defend the nation.But with much of the early negotiating likely to take place behind closed doors, both parties seem to agree that after weeks of a near total shutdown eclipse, Congress needs to move on. They hope that some regular order can help heal the bruises left by the impasse.Border security and immigration issues are important, and we should deal with them, but we can deal with several important issues at the same time, said Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine. We cant put the rest of the business of government on hold while these issues, important though they are, are resolved.For House Democrats, the return to normal governance provides a window to reclaim some of the attention the shutdown drained from the initial rollout of their legislative agenda. House Democratic leaders had insisted when they took control early this month that the shutdown would not affect their carefully choreographed agenda rollout. But it did.Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and her allies plan to hold a ceremony on Wednesday to formally reintroduce the Paycheck Fairness Act, a measure intended to equalize pay between men and women that Democrats have tried to enact for 20 years. Like other bills under consideration in the House, it is unlikely to be taken up by the Republican-controlled Senate, but it is a key piece of Democrats messaging to voters ahead of the 2020 elections.Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Trump also are likely to renew discussion in the coming days about a date to reschedule the presidents State of the Union address, which was previously scheduled for Tuesday and became a casualty of the shutdown. Last week, Ms. Pelosi rescinded her invitation for the president to address Congress while the government was still shuttered, and has said subsequently that the two sides will work to find an agreeable date in the future to allow time to prepare.On the House floor, Democrats will bring up a vote on legislation that would give nonmilitary federal workers a pay raise in line with the pay increase members of the military have received. The legislation, if it became law, would override an executive order issued by Mr. Trump a week into the shutdown that froze civilian federal pay.The House Armed Services Committee will hold a hearing on Tuesday about the cost and rationale behind the deployment by Mr. Trump of thousands of active duty troops to the southern border. Representative Adam Smith of Washington, the committees chairman, said in a statement that there has not been adequate justification for the use of our military personnel in this way.And the Judiciary Committee will hold the first hearing on the For the People Act to start building support for the legislation that would overhaul key aspects of the way federal elections are financed and held. In an interview, Mr. Nadler ticked off a dozen or so other policy areas awaiting attention by his committee alone.We were all elected on much of this stuff, he said. There is a frustrating backlog.Even lawmakers in Mr. Trumps party, many of them rattled by the costs of the longest shutdown in the nations history, have signaled they are eager to broaden their work, in part to lower the temperature around immigration talks and show voters they can govern.Ms. Collins said she had stalled the introduction of important bills because of the shutdown, and she stressed that the Senate needs to demonstrate to the American people that we can work together on issues that really affect them, such as infrastructure, prescription drug pricing and retirement security.One of the frustrating side effects of this awful shutdown was that it prevented the Senate from getting a fast start on a lot of important issues, she said on Sunday.Several Senate committees will begin to change that this week.In the Senate Judiciary Committee, Republicans will effectively restart the gears of machinery they used in the last Congress to confirm record numbers of conservative judges to lifetime appointments on federal courts all over the country. On the agenda for a meeting on Tuesday are Mr. Barr, Mr. Trumps nominee for attorney general, as well as six potential federal appeals court judges and more than three dozen other judicial nominees, the committees chairman, Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, said last week.And though committee customs are such that the nominees are unlikely to get a final vote this week, Mr. Graham is taking an important step in filling up a reservoir of nominees that Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, can slowly bring to the Senate floor for confirmation.The Senate Intelligence Committee will push the leaders of the F.B.I., the C.I.A., the National Security Agency, the Defense Intelligence Agency, the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, and the director of national intelligence to account for developments in geopolitical hot spots like Russia, China and North Korea.And Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, will convene the Senate Finance Committee for the first in what he said would be a series of sessions focused on the sky-high cost of prescription drugs  one of the few areas in which Democrats and some Republicans believe they could reach an agreement with Mr. Trump this term.We already know what the problem is, Mr. Grassley said last week. Its time to look at bipartisan solutions and work to turn them into law.The legislative package the Senate will vote on beginning Monday, called the Strengthening Americas Security in the Middle East Act, is expected to pass with bipartisan support, but not without controversy. It pairs three noncontroversial bills with a fourth that affirms the right of state and local governments to break financial ties with companies that participate in efforts to boycott, divest investments from and sanction Israel, a movement known as B.D.S.Supporters view the legislation as a key pillar of a sustained push to counter growing support for the B.D.S. movement and continue what has been historically strong bipartisan support for Israel. But Republicans believe that it will highlight the divide among Democrats, between that more traditional view and that of a younger generation in the House critical of Israels treatment of Palestinians.Already the National Republican Congressional Committee has taken to labeling Ms. Omar an anti-Semite for her positions on Israel, a charge she hotly rejects.With the shutdown over, I look forward to my colleagues putting politics aside and considering this bill that will keep America and our allies safer and more secure, Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida and the bills lead author, said in a statement on Sunday.Catie Edmondson contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byVoters want more open borders, not a smart wall. Democrats should listen.By Daniel DenvirMr. Denvir is the author of the forthcoming All-American Nativism.The last government shutdown ended because Democrats stood firm against President Trumps border wall. But funding will soon run out again, talks between Democrats and Republicans are in crisis, and Mr. Trump remains committed: The Wall will get built one way or the other! he tweeted on Saturday.The Senates minority leader, Chuck Schumer, has made it clear that Mr. Trump wont get his way: Democrats are against the wall. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who has admirably enforced party discipline, has called the wall immoral.Yet at the same time, Ms. Pelosi has emphasized that Democrats are committed to border security. She has critiqued the wall on the narrow grounds that government should instead employ evidence-based knowledge about how we best secure our border. James Clyburn, the majority whip, fleshed out what that might look like: a smart wall, including more Border Patrol agents. This, too, is immoral.Its also bad politics. Democrats should follow their voters, who increasingly want more open borders, and reframe the immigration debate by rejecting the very notion that the border needs more security and making it clear that the real problem is the denial of migrants rights. The time has come for the Democratic Party to push for concrete policies to make the border more open.There is plainly no need for more security on the border. Illegal entries to the United States (as measured by Border Patrol apprehensions, which the government has long used as a proxy) began to fall at the turn of the century, and have plummeted since 2006. They remain at historic lows today. Those who are coming to the country are often Central Americans fleeing violence that United States policy in the region helped foment.And when it comes to drugs  a favorite justification of Mr. Trumps for his wall  evidence shows that more border security does not stop trafficking. From the 1970s on, every crackdown on a drug-smuggling route, whether it was heroin via the French Connection or cocaine through the Caribbean, has only led to new innovations in the trade that have empowered murderous Mexican cartels. Some scholars even argue that the rise of fentanyl can be traced to drug interdiction.Then why, if there isnt truly a crisis on the border, do the Democrats continue to invoke the need for more border security? Largely because the conversation about the border and immigration has moved so far to the right over the past 30 years. As the linguist George Lakoff and Sam Ferguson, his student at the time, wrote more than a decade ago, the narrow framing of the immigration debate has shaped its politics, defining what count as problems and, as a result, constrains the solutions needed to address that problem. When the problem is defined as illegal immigration, it becomes about the illegal act of crossing the border without papers, and so the logical response to the wave of illegal immigration becomes border security.Since Bill Clintons presidency, the Border Patrol has grown from 4,100 agents in fiscal year 1992 to more than 19,000 today. The United States has built hundreds of miles of border fencing since the 2006 Secure Fence Act, which Barack Obama, Joe Biden and Hillary Clinton voted for. Well, I voted for border security, and some of it was a fence, Mrs. Clinton feebly said in 2016 when pressed about the 2006 vote that within a decade had become controversial.Democrats have for far too long let their political opponents define the terms of debate. Now theyre doing it again: House Democrats proposal heading into the negotiations with Republicans didnt include funding for new physical barriers or additional Border Patrol agents, but it did offer significantly increased funding for border security technology.Thats not only bad for immigrants who, as a result of militarized borders are more likely to be kidnapped, violently assaulted and driven to cross via the lethal desert. Its also bad for Democrats, who are handing ammunition to the nativist right at a time when Republicans are on the back foot and polls show that Democratic voters are moving decidedly leftward on immigration and the border.[Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]Voters used to overwhelmingly favor less immigration, but opinions have changed fast amid an immigrant rights movement that took off in 2006 and partisan polarization driven by aggressive enforcement. In 1994, just 32 percent of Democrats and Democratic-leaning Americans and 30 percent of Republicans agreed that immigrants strengthened the country, according to the Pew Research Center. But by 2016, the share of Democrats who said so had skyrocketed to 78 percent. In 2006, 37 percent of Democrats said that immigration levels should be decreased, while only 20 percent said that it should be increased. In 2018, 40 percent said that it should be increased, with just 16 percent calling for restriction. The same trend has held on border politics: In 2010, 47 percent of Democrats said that they equally prioritized legalizing undocumented immigrants and better border security and stronger enforcement of immigration laws, while just 29 percent prioritized legalization alone. By 2018, the number prioritizing legalization alone skyrocketed to 51 percent.Under President Trump, polarization has accelerated  and thats a good thing. The vanishing bipartisan consensus orchestrated mammoth deportations and militarized the border in the quixotic hope of placating the nativist right and winning it over to supporting immigration reform. This strategy only inflamed the rights paranoiac ravings and helped move the goal posts to new extremes. Which is why we find ourselves, in 2019, with the possibility of beginning a second government shutdown over the wall.So, what should the Democrats pursue instead? A break with a failed bipartisan consensus.Representatives Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Ilhan Omar, Ayanna Pressley and Rashida Tlaib, all Democrats who are new to the House, have drafted a letter urging opposition to any deal that increases Department of Homeland Security funding in any form. Thats a good start.The border must be demilitarized, which would include demolishing the already-existing wall and dramatically downsizing the Border Patrol. Criminal sanctions on illegal entry and re-entry must be repealed. Opportunities for legal immigration, particularly from Mexico and Central America, must be expanded. The right to asylum must be honored. And citizenship for those who reside here must be a stand-alone cause, unencumbered by compromises that are not only distasteful but also politically ineffectual  and that today would provoke opposition from the nativist right and the grass-roots left. If Democrats stick to the center on immigration, they will find themselves fighting on two fronts. A fight against Republicans, with the left at their back, will be far easier to win  and a more noble victory.Simple realism dictates that no legislation to grant citizenship to the millions of undocumented Americans who deserve it will be passed until the Republicans are defeated. Theres no use trying to appease them. The bipartisan consensus supporting harsh immigration and border enforcement has fractured. Democratic elected officials need to catch up.Daniel Denvir (@danieldenvir) is a visiting fellow at the Watson Institute for International and Public Affairs at Brown University and the author of the forthcoming All-American Nativism. He also hosts The Dig, a podcast from Jacobin magazine.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byCongress needs to be able to make its own assessment of the facts  and so do we.By Noah BookbinderMr. Bookbinder is the executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington.When President Trump fired James Comey, the director of the F.B.I., on May 9, 2017, many Americans were justifiably worried that investigators would never be permitted to get to the bottom of Russias attack on our 2016 election and any potential involvement of Mr. Trumps associates. Despite continued attempts by the president to impede the investigation, Robert Mueller, the special counsel, has, in under two years, indicted dozens of Russians and Americans and submitted a report for review to Attorney General William Barr.Now that Mr. Muellers investigation is complete (or nearly complete), the Department of Justice must formally reveal its findings to Congress and the American people, which have separate and enormously consequential responsibilities of their own. These responsibilities cannot be carried out fully without direct access to the material that is in the report. Understanding this, the House of Representatives has already unanimously passed a resolution calling for the reports release, and in recent polling vast majorities of Americans have agreed with this approach.The report that Mr. Mueller submitted to Mr. Barr for review should be viewed in combination with the remarkable assertions and conclusions that the special counsel has already reached in the form of indictments and guilty pleas of Trump associates and Russian nationals and organizations. Mr. Mueller and his team have already established that the Russian government engaged in a multipronged attack on our democracy. To review: Russian military intelligence officers hacked computers, networks and email accounts associated with the Hillary Clinton campaign and the Democratic Party, and then released hacked material via WikiLeaks. Separately, Russians used fraudulent social media accounts to directly influence American opinions about the 2016 election. As the nations intelligence agencies and the Senate Intelligence Committee have separately concluded, these efforts were calculated to help Mr. Trumps candidacy for president and to denigrate his opponents.We also know that senior members of the Trump campaign, including the presidents son, son-in-law and campaign chairman, met with Russians who promised dirt on Mrs. Clinton. If there was in fact no collusion, as the president so often claims, it apparently was not for lack of trying. The special counsel has secured guilty pleas on serious federal felony charges from Trump associates, including Mr. Trumps campaign chairman, Paul Manafort; the deputy campaign chairman, Rick Gates; a former national security adviser, Michael Flynn; a Trump campaign foreign policy adviser, George Papadopoulos; and Mr. Trumps former personal lawyer, Michael Cohen.What do all these men have in common? They lied to investigators about the nature of their relationships with foreign powers, and they worked for the Trump campaign. And thats before we even start talking about Roger Stone.Regardless of whether efforts by Trump associates to coordinate with or benefit from interference by Russia or WikiLeaks were criminal, the fact that Mr. Trump and his campaign strategists sought to benefit from a foreign adversarys efforts to undermine our democracy is one of the greatest breaches of public trust our country has ever witnessed. If Mr. Mueller ultimately determined that indicting the presidents associates for this conduct was not appropriate, that does not mean that there should not be consequences for this outrageous breach of trust.Though these and other findings have already been made public, many key questions remain. Chief among these is whether the special counsel found evidence that Mr. Trump obstructed justice by engaging in a pattern of conduct calculated to impede investigations of his campaign and his administration, including by firing Mr. Comey; attempting to force out the previous attorney general, Jeff Sessions, and pushing Mr. Sessions to reverse his recusal from the Russia inquiry; and potentially by dangling pardons to key defendants. Congress and the American people deserve to know the truth about the facts and circumstances of the presidents possibly obstructive acts. Obstruction of an investigation is not only criminal conduct, but also an affront to our system of government and the faith that the American people have in it.Equally important the report should begin to answer the crucial question that hangs over the entire Trump presidency: What did the president know and when did he know it? It is possible, for example, that Mr. Mueller may have uncovered evidence that Mr. Trump knew in advance of the numerous interactions between high-level campaign officials and Russian operatives, or that he knew of the plan to disseminate the hacked emails at strategically important times. This type of explosive revelation could indicate that the president was intentionally helping a malicious foreign power undermine our democracy. If the president knew about this conduct  and continued to protect and reward high-level intermediaries like Mr. Flynn and Mr. Manafort when he assumed office  the public could rightfully question his fitness to continue to serve as president.The report may also shed light on why the special counsel has apparently declined to indict Mr. Trump. That it is Department of Justice policy not to indict a sitting president is well known. Given that, Mr. Mueller may have decided that some of Mr. Trumps conduct, while deeply concerning, unacceptable or even potentially illegal, did not rise to the level of a chargeable offense in the presidential context. In such circumstances, the Justice Department is functionally deferring to Congresss primary jurisdiction over presidential accountability and should transmit to Congress whatever materials are relevant, particularly to potential abuses of power.That is precisely why the entire report must be made available not only to the publics representatives in Congress, but also to the public as a whole. The responsibility for holding to account any bad actors identified in the report, President Trump included, now falls on the American people and Congress. Without direct access to Mr. Muellers full report, Congress cannot responsibly decide whether to exercise its powers of oversight or impeachment, and the American people will be unable to make a fully informed decision about whether Mr. Trump can be trusted with the high office he occupies.The report, and the findings and evidence supporting it, must be released.Noah Bookbinder (@NoahBookbinder) is the executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Ernesto Londoo and Manuela AndreoniRIO DE JANEIRO  Brazilians signaled a desire for a radical shift in the countrys course when they elected the far-right lawmaker Jair Bolsonaro as their next president in October.It didnt take long for profound changes to start taking hold.In the weeks leading up to Mr. Bolsonaros swearing-in on Tuesday, his embrace of a conservative movement that rejects discussion of gender or sexual orientation in schools thrust classrooms to the front lines of culture wars.Under his direction, Brazil pulled out of hosting the 2019 United Nations summit meeting on climate change and began backtracking from its role as a global exemplar of environmentally sustainable development.And on the foreign policy front, Mr. Bolsonaro courted the United States and picked a fight with Cuba, which responded by rescinding a program that had sent Cuban doctors to remote corners of Brazil since 2013.There is considerable uncertainty about how closely President Bolsonaro will resemble the gruff, indignant and uncompromising candidate who ran as a political outsider and pulled off a long-shot victory by promising to dismantle a culture of corruption and use draconian means to restore security.But there is no doubt that deep transformations are underway. Here are some examples:Days before Mr. Bolsonaros inauguration, his son Carlos Bolsonaro, a Rio de Janeiro city councilman, posted a video on Twitter paying homage to his fathers love of weapons and highlighting his pledges to make it easier for the police to kill suspected criminals.I would rather they murder 200,000 thugs, the future president is seen saying about the police in a clip that is part of the expletive-laden video.Over the weekend, Mr. Bolsonaro announced he would issue an executive order allowing civilians without a criminal record to purchase weapons to keep at home or work for self-protection.The policy would mark a significant departure from Brazils onerous rules for gun ownership, and experts said it would probably exacerbate carnage in the country, which last year had a record 63,880 killings. A poll released on Sunday by the research firm Datafolha found that 61 percent of Brazilians were opposed to relaxing gun ownership rules.Mr. Bolsonaros promises to ease weapons regulations have already meant brisk business for gun ranges as aficionados sign up for practice. They also boosted the stock price of Taurus Armas, Brazils main gun manufacturer.The image captured the high hopes Mr. Bolsonaro and his team have for closer ties with the United States: After Mr. Bolsonaros son Eduardo Bolsonaro wrapped up meetings at the White House during a November trip designed to lay the groundwork for a relationship, the presidents son wore a Trump 2020 campaign hat.The Trump administration has returned the praise, calling Mr. Bolsonaro a like-minded leader on whom Washington hopes to rely as it tries to curb Chinas growing influence in the region and put more pressure on Venezuelas authoritarian government.Secretary of State Mike Pompeo will lead the American delegation at Mr. Bolsonaros swearing-in ceremony in Braslia.Mr. Bolsonaros first diplomatic fight also happened in November, as Cuba abruptly terminated a program under which the island had been deploying thousands of doctors to remote, impoverished regions in Brazil since 2013. Mr. Bolsonaro had called the program a form of indentured slavery and vowed to end it.A vocal critic of authoritarian left-wing governments in the region, Mr. Bolsonaro said he would not invite representatives of the governments of Cuba, Nicaragua or Venezuela to his swearing-in ceremony.On the campaign trail, Mr. Bolsonaro promised to open up more protected land to mining, farming and other industries. People deep in the Amazon took note.Between August and October, the most ardent period of the campaign, deforestation in the Amazon went up by almost 50 percent compared with the same period in 2017.While such an upswing is common during election periods because of an expectation that regulations will change, this was the sharpest increase since close monitoring of deforestation in the Amazon began in 2004, said Adalberto Verssimo, a co-founder of Imazon, an environmental watchdog agency.There is an expectation that the government will be more favorable to economic activities in the Amazon, no matter the circumstances, Mr. Verssimo said.Throughout his campaign, Mr. Bolsonaro threatened to withdraw Brazil from the Paris Agreement, the international pact struck in 2016 to reduce carbon emissions, and he vowed to put an end to fines imposed by agencies protecting the environment.In late November, the Foreign Ministry announced that Brazil was withdrawing its pledge to host the 2019 United Nations global summit meeting on climate change. Mr. Bolsonaro said he had requested the withdrawal.The move was a clear sign of the shift that Mr. Bolsonaros election represents for environmental policy. For years, Brazil, which has the largest share of the Amazon, the worlds largest tropical rain forest, has cast itself as a nation committed to sustainable development and sound environmental policies.After Mr. Bolsonaro was elected, he named Ernesto Arajo, a career diplomat and climate change denier, as foreign minister. His minister of the environment, Ricardo Salles, said soon after his appointment that the debate over global warming was a secondary issue.Despite his 27 years in Congress, Mr. Bolsonaro ran as an outsider at the head of a minuscule party. He was rejected by mainstream parties, which saw him as too radical to win and refused to offer him a running mate. But Brazilians, angry with the political establishment, rewarded him handsomely for breaking with the status quo.With his cabinet choices, Mr. Bolsonaro continued to signal a break with politics as usual. Instead of doling out ministerial positions to influential members of political parties with the aim of building coalitions in Brazils fractious, multiparty Congress, as previous presidents had done, he tapped military leaders, ideologues and technocrats.The unusually high number of military officers in his government, including the recently retired army general Hamilton Mouro, who was his running mate, represents a remarkable shift for a nation that kept the military largely out of sight as it rebuilt democratic institutions after the end of military rule in the mid-1980s.Mr. Arajo, who raised eyebrows by expressing effusive support for Mr. Bolsonaro during the campaign, will be the rare foreign minister to have risen to the top job from the ranks of career diplomats.The incoming justice minister, Srgio Moro, is a federal judge who became famous for his prominent role in a major anticorruption investigation that led to the downfall of scores of prominent politicians and business people.In 2014, Mr. Bolsonaro and his sons embraced a little-known movement named Escola Sem Partido, or School Without Party. It was formed by conservative activists who claimed that Brazilian students were being indoctrinated by left-wing educators promoting gender and social equality, among other policies.The movement has grown in prominence in recent years, sparking the proposal of dozens of bills across Brazil to shape public school curriculums. Some of the bills would prohibit teachers from talking about their political views, encouraging students to join demonstrations or discussing gender issues in classrooms.In November, Mr. Bolsonaro tapped Ricardo Vlez Rodrguez, a Colombian theologist who backs Escola Sem Partidos main ideas, to head the Ministry of Education. One day before his inauguration, Mr. Bolsonaro posted on Twitter that Mr. Vlez would help him fight the Marxist garbage that has installed itself in educational institutions.Even before Mr. Bolsonaro took office, teachers were threatened by parents and students and some were fired over their political views, according to Fernanda Moura, a history teacher and a member of the group Teachers Against School Without Party. Others had begun to self-censor, she said.We were building a new Brazil little by little, a Brazil with policies of inclusion for L.G.B.T. people, women, blacks, people with special needs, she said. What we see is that the people who are against these social policies dont want us to debate them. Thats why they attack schools.Mr. Bolsonaros campaign broke with many of the longtime formulas for electoral victory in Brazil. Instead of courting powerful mainstream media outlets, which covered him critically, he maligned them as fake news and addressed supporters directly on social media, where he developed a large following.Like President Trump, he and his top surrogates seem to relish picking fights with journalists. They have begun blocking critical reporters on Twitter, and at the first news conference following his election, journalists from outlets that published critical articles during the campaign were barred.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Sarah MervoshMitt Romney, the incoming senator from Utah and former Republican presidential nominee, revived his rivalry with President Trump on Tuesday with an op-ed essay in The Washington Post in which he said Mr. Trump has not risen to the mantle of the office.Days before joining a Republican-controlled Senate, and as the 2020 presidential race begins to take form, Mr. Romney issued a pointed critique of the presidents character.With the nation so divided, resentful and angry, presidential leadership in qualities of character is indispensable, he wrote ahead of his swearing-in on Thursday. And it is in this province where the incumbents shortfall has been most glaring.[After the essay, Mitt Romney faced counterattacks from the presidents allies. Read more here.]The timing and tone of the piece set off widespread speculation online, with some suggesting that Mr. Romney aimed to position himself as the new Jeff Flake, the departing Republican senator from Arizona who publicly tangled with Mr. Trump.Question will be, is he a Flake? Mr. Trump responded on Twitter on Wednesday morning in his first response to Mr. Romneys essay. I won big, and he didnt. He should be happy for all Republicans. Be a TEAM player & WIN!Others asked, was Mr. Romney, a two-time presidential hopeful, signaling he might try to challenge the president in the 2020 Republican primary election?Brad Parscale, the campaign manager for Mr. Trumps 2020 re-election bid, quickly fired back at Mr. Romney, saying in a tweet Tuesday night that Mr. Trump had saved the country while the senator-elect could not.Jealousy is a drink best served warm and Romney just proved it, he said. So sad.Mr. Romney and Mr. Trump have long had a complicated political relationship.Mr. Trump has called Mr. Romney irrelevant and once bragged that he was a more successful businessman. I mean, my net worth is many, many, many times Mitt Romney, he said in 2011.When Mr. Trump was running for president in 2016, Mr. Romney called him a phony and a fraud. In 2017 he excoriated the president after the deadly white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Va., for causing racists to rejoice and minorities to weep.But Mr. Trump backed Mr. Romneys 2012 run for president, an endorsement that the nominee said meant a great deal.The two tried to play nice during an awkward dinner together in late 2016, when it was thought Mr. Romney could be a candidate for secretary of state in the Trump administration. Last year, Mr. Trump supported Mr. Romneys campaign to become Utahs junior senator  and Mr. Romney thanked him for the endorsement.Mr. Romneys criticism at the outset of the new session of Congress was a blunt message to Mr. Trump that one of his most outspoken Republican critics from the 2016 campaign would soon have a high-profile platform in Washington.And while Mr. Romney has largely refrained from the sort of blistering attacks he made against Mr. Trump two years ago, the broadside in The Post suggested that Utahs soon-to-be senator might be open to a third presidential campaign.Indeed, parts of the essay sounded like the makings of a primary challenge against Mr. Trump from Mr. Romney.To reassume our leadership in world politics, we must repair failings in our politics at home, Mr. Romney wrote. That project begins, of course, with the highest office once again acting to inspire and unite us.At the outset of the year before his re-election, however, Mr. Trump does not appear vulnerable to an intraparty threat. He remains broadly popular among Republicans and even more so among the partys most engaged voters, those most likely to vote in a primary.But the president is also facing sprawling investigations that touch on nearly every aspect of his life and, with Democrats in charge of the House, is about to face a level of congressional scrutiny and oversight he averted in his first two years in office.For most of the first two years of Mr. Trumps presidency, Republican lawmakers muted their concerns about him or expressed them privately. But many of them never fully let go of their misgivings about his conduct.To that end, Mr. Romneys op-ed essay spoke to an unease many senior Republican officials still have about Mr. Trump, concerns that some lawmakers finally began publicly voicing last month after the president abruptly disclosed plans to pull troops from Afghanistan and Syria.Mr. Romney, too, was disturbed by the developments of the past month, citing the  troop withdrawal and the departures of high-level officials like Jim Mattis, the defense secretary, and John F. Kelly, the presidents chief of staff.The Trump presidency made a deep descent in December, he wrote.While Mr. Romney made clear that Mr. Trump was not my choice for the Republican presidential nomination, he said he would treat Mr. Trump as he would any commander in chief.I do not intend to comment on every tweet or fault, he wrote. But I will speak out against significant statements or actions that are divisive, racist, sexist, anti-immigrant, dishonest or destructive to democratic institutions.Jonathan Martin and Andrew R. Chow contributed reporting.Follow Sarah Mervosh on Twitter: @smervosh. Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Alan RappeportWASHINGTON  President Trump, seeking to shore up his base of support in rural America, promised farmers on Monday that the greatest harvest is yet to come and insisted that the pain they were experiencing from his economic policies would ultimately make them better off.In a speech to the American Farm Bureau Federation at its annual convention in New Orleans, Mr. Trump asked farmers to be patient as he tried to rewrite trade agreements with China, Europe, Canada and Mexico and as he battled with congressional Democrats over immigration.The presidents policies have caused problems for the farming industry, which was already struggling with higher commodity costs, stiff retaliatory tariffs and loss of access to some markets as a result of Mr. Trumps trade fight with other nations. Farmers are now dealing with a freeze on certain types of government-backed loans, subsidy payments and other federal services as a result of the protracted partial government shutdown, which has entered its fourth week.No one understands better than our great farmers that the tough choices we make today reap rewards for centuries to come, Mr. Trump said.In a stemwinder that touched on immigration policy, news media criticism and the importance of standing for the national anthem at football games, Mr. Trump told farmers that the benefits of trade deals that have not been finalized were already being realized.In reality, the presidents trade agenda remains in flux, and he has yet to secure pivotal trade agreements with Europe, Japan, China and other countries that could determine whether he is able to keep his pledge to enrich the United States agricultural workers by cutting better deals.On Monday, Mr. Trump painted a rosy picture for farmers who are facing a difficult year ahead as the American economy faces a slowdown and as an array of complicated trade negotiations remain unresolved.Mr. Trump declared that his talks with China were going well, that farmers would soon see open access to Chinas vast market and that they would be protected from what he described as efforts by the Chinese to illicitly acquire their intellectual property for seeds and other products. The scope of any China deal remains murky, however, as deep divisions remain between the two countries, which face a March 2 deadline to reach an agreement. Failure to broker a deal would cause the Trump administration to raise tariffs further on Chinese imports, escalating a trade war that has already rattled markets and provided a drag on the global economy.The president also praised his get-tough approach with Europe, explaining that he was in the process of overhauling a trade relationship with the European Union that he said was unfair because it did not allow American farmers to sell enough chicken, cheese, beef and other agricultural products to European countries.They treat our farmers terribly, Mr. Trump said, trumpeting his lack of popularity in Europe. They dont want your product.Yet despite the suggestion that his approach would secure more access to Europe for American farmers, Europes top trade negotiator, Cecilia Malmstrom, made clear to American officials last week on a visit to Washington that any trade agreement would be limited to industrial goods. The European Unions member states have not given her the authority to negotiate new terms for agricultural products, a limitation that could prove to be a deal-breaker in any new trade treaty with the United States.The president is also facing resistance at home to the revised trade agreement with Canada and Mexico, which is critical to American farmers. Mr. Trump said that the deal, known as the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, was a boon for American dairy farmers, who would soon face fewer restrictions when selling products into Canada. But the agreement has yet to win congressional approval, and Democrats who now control the House have made clear they are not ready to rubber-stamp the agreement without significant changes.The government shutdown has only exacerbated anxiety among farmers. The trade war had already reduced American farmers access to China, a critical market for soybeans, farm equipment and other products, and the industry is struggling with retaliatory tariffs from Europe, Canada and Mexico.To help cushion the blow, Mr. Trump created a $12 billion bailout fund to compensate farmers hurt by the trade war. But that program is on hiatus and payouts are delayed because the Agriculture Department is not being funded during the shutdown.Mr. Trump blamed Democrats for the situation and defended his position that he should not approve funding for the government until lawmakers agree to build a wall along the southwestern border, which he said was essential for keeping the country safe. He did draw applause at one point for striking a softer tone on immigration and insisting that he wants to make it easier for farmers to hire and keep immigrant workers.Even though Mr. Trump professed his love for farmers, his urban roots were at times hard to conceal. The president acknowledged his ignorance about wheat policy when explaining that Canada would soon grade American wheat the same way it grades its own.Which to me doesnt mean much, he said, but to farmers it means a lot.At another point, Mr. Trump celebrated his efforts to ease the regulatory burden that farmers face, noting that he rolled back a rule that penalized farmers for having prairie potholes on their land.Do you all know what prairie potholes are? he asked a laughing audience. I dont, but it sounds bad.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Alex MarshallOn Sunday night, Spike Lee won his first competitive Oscar, then made an acceptance speech that gained a standing ovation. But the events did not please at least one person apparently watching: President Trump. On Monday, he called Lees speech a racist hit on your President.Lee opened his speech, after winning best adapted screenplay for BlacKkKlansman, by discussing slavery and his familys experiences of it. I give praise to our ancestors, who have built this country into what it is today along with the genocide of the native people, he said.The 2020 presidential election is around the corner, Lee said. Lets all mobilize. Lets all be on the right side of history. Make the moral choice between love versus hate.[Read our analysis of the ceremony.]Lee did not mention the president in his speech, but that call to action seems to have angered him. Be nice if Spike Lee could read his notes, or better yet not have to use notes at all, when doing his racist hit on your President, Trump said in a tweet in the early hours of Monday morning.The presidents policies had done more for African Americans (Criminal Justice Reform, Lowest Unemployment numbers in History, Tax Cuts, etc.) than almost any other Pres! the president added.Trump did not dwell on the issue for long. Shortly afterward he tweeted about oil prices getting too high, and a forthcoming meeting with Kim Jong-un, the leader of North Korea (With complete Denuclearization, North Korea will rapidly become an Economic Powerhouse, he wrote).[Read Lees speech here.]Theo Dumont, Lees publicist, said the director would not be commenting on Trumps tweet.BlacKkKlansman is based on the story of Ron Stallworth, a black police officer who infiltrated the Ku Klux Klan. In interviews around its release, Lee said he wanted to draw a link between the Klan and events today. We had to connect David Duke to Agent Orange, he told The New York Times, using his own term for the president.At the end of BlacKkKlansman, Lee included footage of the 2017 white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Va., that descended into violence when protesters clashed with counterprotesters. He then showed footage of Trump saying there was blame on both sides for those events.When Green Book won best picture at the ceremony on Sunday, Lee made a disgusted gesture and started walking out of the theater as Green Book producers gave their speeches. Backstage, when asked by reporters about the coronation of Green Book, which detractors complain has a retrograde view of race, Lee replied, No comment.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Campbell Robertson, Jonathan Martin and Stephanie SaulRICHMOND, Va.  A Democratic lawmaker in Virginia on Sunday sent his colleagues a draft resolution that would begin impeachment proceedings against Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax, who is facing multiple allegations of sexual assault.The resolution directs a House committee to determine whether allegations of sexual assault against Mr. Fairfax by two women, Meredith Watson and Vanessa C. Tyson, constitute conduct sufficient to provide grounds for impeachment.In an email accompanying the draft, the lawmaker, Delegate Patrick A. Hope, emphasized that the resolution is not impeachment. It is a process to investigate whether the Courts Committee would recommend impeachment.Mr. Hope had said on Friday evening that he would introduce articles of impeachment on Monday if Mr. Fairfax, a fellow Democrat, had not resigned by then. But early Monday, Mr. Hope said on Twitter that discussions with his colleagues had led to additional conversations that need to take place before anything is filed.Mr. Hope backed down after a Sunday night conference call among House Democrats turned heated when black lawmakers angrily demanded that their colleague, who is white, back off from starting the impeachment process this week, according to two Democrats directly familiar with the call.Virginia Democrats, who are reeling from more than a week of extraordinary turmoil, are caught in a tough bind after the states governor and attorney general both admitted to wearing blackface as young men.[Get caught up on the scandals that are upending Virginia politics.]Impeachment proceedings against Mr. Fairfax would be fraught with political risks. Many Democrats have called for Mr. Fairfax to resign over the assault allegations. But some Democrats are  wary of impeaching the lieutenant governor, who is black, while sparing the governor and attorney general, who are white and have resisted calls to step down after admitting to racist conduct.The Democrats also do not hold a majority in the House and are thus not free to set the agenda.A spokeswoman for Mr. Fairfax said that while he was aggressively exploring options for a thorough, independent and impartial investigation, an impeachment proceeding was an inherently political process that would not present the most likely path for learning the truth.As Mr. Hope was contemplating introducing his resolution against Mr. Fairfax, a lawyer for one of the accusers, Ms. Watson, shared Facebook messages from early 2017 providing more details about Ms. Watsons accusation against the lieutenant governor.In the messages provided by the lawyer, Ms. Watson told a friend who also knew Mr. Fairfax that she had not reported her allegation of assault against him to officials at Duke University in 2000 because it had brushed aside her complaint a year earlier about an assault by another student.I just kept my mouth shut and have slowly died from the pain ever since, Ms. Watson said in one message.In the exchange, she also alleged that because Mr. Fairfax knew how the earlier assault complaint had been handled, he said he targeted her on purpose because he knew Id be too scared to report another assault.A spokeswoman for Mr. Fairfax, who has denied the rape allegations by both women, said the claim contained in the Facebook messages that he raped a woman because she had been raped before by another student was illogical.In what world does that make sense, said the spokeswoman, Lauren Burke.A childhood friend of Ms. Watson, the Washington attorney R. Stanton Jones, said Sunday night that Ms. Watson had confided in him in 2001 that she had been raped by two men in college but that she did not disclose Mr. Fairfaxs name.Mr. Jones, a partner at the law firm Arnold & Porter, said he was coming forward because it seems like the right thing to do.The prospects of any one of Virginias top three leaders willingly resigning seemed to recede as the weekend wore on. Mr. Fairfax, who has denied the allegations and described the sexual encounters at the center of the claims as consensual, released a statement on Saturday night calling for an investigation and citing the need for due process.And on Sunday morning, the governor, Ralph Northam, remained firm in his intention to stay in office and stopped short of calling for the resignations of either of his fellow scandal-plagued Democratic leaders.In an interview with CBS This Morning, Mr. Northam said he was not going anywhere and instead would work as governor to take action with policy to address inequities in Virginia.Asked about his two besieged colleagues  Mr. Fairfax and Mark R. Herring, the attorney general, who admitted to wearing blackface as a college student in the 1980s  Mr. Northam said that they have all grown over the last week, and that the decisions on whether to resign would have to be made by the men themselves.The governor endorsed Mr. Fairfaxs proposal, made in a statement, to have the F.B.I. investigate the claims of sexual assault. I really think where we are now, we need to get to the truth, he said.In the interview, he also said he was dedicated to continuing the work of racial progress, pointing out that the state is 400 years from the moment the first indentured servants from Africa landed in Virginia.At that point the interviewer, Gayle King, chimed in: Also known as slavery.It has been more than a week since a photograph showing men in blackface and a Ku Klux Klan outfit on Mr. Northams medical school yearbook page came to light. Nearly every day since has provided an unforeseen twist.The governor, who initially apologized for appearing in the photo and appeared to be on the verge of resigning, has since insisted it is not him in the picture.Mr. Fairfax, who a week ago seemed almost certain to take the governors place, now appears to be in political danger. And unlike the governor and attorney general, who had both remained in seclusion until Mr. Northam emerged this weekend for a pair of interviews, Mr. Fairfax must show up each day this week to a Capitol teeming with reporters to fulfill his duties as president of the State Senate.Despite Mr. Fairfaxs and Mr. Northams vows to remain in office, it is not clear how much support they can regain. Appearing on CBSs Face the Nation after clips of the interview with Mr. Northam were played, two Democratic members of Virginias congressional delegation, Representatives Jennifer Wexton and Don Beyer, said they still believed that Mr. Northam and Mr. Fairfax should step down.I dont believe he can effectively lead the commonwealth at this time, Ms. Wexton said of the governor. Of Mr. Fairfax, she said, I believe the lieutenant governor will do the right thing for Virginia and resign.Neither representative called for the resignation of Mr. Herring, contrasting his heartfelt apology and outreach to African-American leaders with Mr. Northams peculiar response, first apologizing for being in the photo and then insisting it was not him. They also dismissed Mr. Fairfaxs calls for an investigation, describing the accusations against him as extremely credible.Ms. Wexton and Mr. Beyer were not the only politicians to weigh in on the scandals in Virginia on Sunday morning. Shortly before their appearances, President Trump chimed in on Twitter, apparently alluding to the political awkwardness of scandals that may take down the black lieutenant governor while leaving in place the white governor and attorney general, who have both admitted to wearing blackface.African Americans are very angry at the double standard on full display in Virginia! the president tweeted, before going on to declare that the Virginia disaster had been one part of a very bad week for the Democrats.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Charlie SavageWASHINGTON  The makings of an epic constitutional battle over the executive branchs power to keep information secret from Congress started to take shape on Friday, as Attorney General William P. Barr began to weigh how much to disclose about the findings of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III.As Mr. Barr officially informed Congress that Mr. Mueller had handed in his long-awaited report about the Trump-Russia investigation to the Justice Department, Democrats on Capitol Hill immediately reiterated their demands to see the entire document  and more.Democrats have made clear they are also determined to gain access to the Mueller teams supporting evidence and other investigative files, virtually guaranteeing a fight.Now that Special Counsel Mueller has submitted his report to the attorney general, it is imperative for Mr. Barr to make the full report public and provide its underlying documentation and findings to Congress, Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, said in a joint statement.In a letter to Congress on Friday, Mr. Barr said he might release Mr. Muellers principal conclusions as soon as this weekend. He is expected to take a longer time to review the broader report for information that is classified, subject to grand-jury secrecy rules or relevant to any open investigation before deciding what to show to Congress.Mr. Barr also plans to consult with the White House about any confidential internal information, including private conversations of the president, that is potentially subject to executive privilege. Decisions about what to make public will be even more complicated.The House voted unanimously this month for a nonbinding resolution demanding that lawmakers be permitted to read the entire report and that the public be allowed to see as much as the law allows  even though the Justice Departments special counsel regulations, written by the Clinton administration after Ken Starrs investigation into the Whitewater and Monica Lewinsky scandals, do not call for that. They also do not prohibit it.Asked about the report in recent days, President Trump said he wanted Mr. Barr to let people see it.Regardless of how much of the report is eventually disclosed, Democrats are also pushing for information and material Mr. Mueller gathered but did not put in the report. Such files could include documents and records of interviews with witnesses, as well as any internal memos the Mueller team wrote analyzing negative information about people whom it ultimately decided against indicting.The Justice Department traditionally opposes turning over such files  especially if they contain information relevant to investigations that remain open. Mr. Mueller has handed off many cases his office developed to regular Justice Department prosecutors for continued pursuit, and there remains a permanently open counterintelligence investigation into Russia.Were definitely on a collision course for a major fight at both ends of Pennsylvania Avenue over both the Mueller report, testimony related to it and the underlying case files, said Andrew Wright, who specialized in executive privilege matters as a White House lawyer in the Obama administration and was a congressional oversight staff member.Such a fight would play out politically  with accusations by Democrats of a cover-up and by Republicans of legislative overreach  and legally. Democrats would begin with a House subpoena to Mr. Barr, followed by a vote to hold him in contempt over whatever he does not turn over.The House would then file a lawsuit to enforce its subpoena, asking a court to order Mr. Barr to comply with it. That would require the judge to decide whether Mr. Barr had a lawful basis to disregard the subpoena, including whether any invocation of executive privilege by Mr. Trump was legitimate.More than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation.Anticipating a lengthy fight, Democrats have already moved to gain access another way to some of the information Mr. Mueller gathered: by asking his witnesses who provided materials to him to give them copies of the same records. Swiftly recreating as much of Mr. Muellers files as possible was a key strategy behind letters the House Judiciary Committee chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York, sent to 81 people and organizations this month asking for records.The committee so far has received tens of thousands of pages, but the most sensitive information gathered is available only from Mr. Mueller, leaving plenty to fight over.The top Democrats on six House committees issued a joint statement on Friday night calling on the Justice Department not only to release to the public the entire report, but also to give their panels the underlying evidence uncovered during the course of the special counsels investigation upon request.One potential obstacle will be information that is classified, like material that could reveal a secret source of intelligence about the Russian government. The executive branch traditionally limits highly sensitive information to the intelligence committees or even just the top Gang of Eight congressional leaders.Another potential hurdle will be information that Mr. Mueller used a grand jury to gather, such as records and testimony he obtained by subpoena. Federal rules of criminal procedure generally bar disclosure of such materials to outsiders  a limit that, on its face, makes no exception for Congress.Still, a judge could issue an order permitting grand jury information to be shared with Congress, as happened in 1974 during the Watergate scandal. A key question would be whether the Trump administration consents to such a request  as the Nixon administration did  or fights it.Notably, for the part of the investigation that focused on whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice, Mr. Muellers team gathered information from witnesses through voluntary F.B.I. interviews that are not shielded by grand-jury secrecy rules, according to lawyers familiar with the matter.transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Clare Toeniskoetter, Annie Brown and Theo Balcomb, and edited by Lisa Tobin, with help from Paige CowettThe Mueller report has been sent to the attorney general. Heres a look at what this means and what comes next.michael barbaroSo its here.michael schmidtWell, its in the hands of Bill Barr. Its not here in the sense that we can publicly consume it and see what Bob Mueller found. It has just moved from one pocket, which we cant see into, into another pocket that we cant see into.michael barbaroBut it has moved pockets, at least, which is something. Something weve been waiting two years for.michael schmidtCorrect. Bob Mueller is done with his investigation.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, Im Michael Barbaro. This is a special episode of The Daily. Today: The Mueller report has been sent to the attorney general. Its Friday afternoon, March 22. So Mike, talk me through your day today.michael schmidtSo knowing it was going to be a big day, I turned on the recorder as soon as I left the house this morning and made my way into the office to hurry up and wait.[music]michael schmidtAll right. 10:05 a.m.michael schmidtI left my house at 10:00 a.m.michael schmidtWe expect the report to be finished today around noon.michael schmidtWalking down 17th Street, heading to the office.michael schmidtI got a call from the office from my editor wanting to know what I knew. Told her I knew nothing. Last thing an editor wants to hear  nothing new.michael schmidtNot a ton of people on the streets.speakerExcuse me.michael schmidtYes?speakerDo you know where the Jamaican Embassy is?michael schmidtI do not, Im sorry. Do you know what the address is?michael schmidtWas stopped by a woman who couldnt find the Jamaican embassy.michael schmidtO.K., so youre going to want to go this way. Go to DuPont Circle, and make a right. Just keep on following that trail.speakerOh, O.K., so Im going the wrong way.michael schmidtWell, were all going the wrong way.michael schmidtCome up to Massachusetts Avenue.michael schmidtCold March day. Fairly cold here in Washington. 45 degrees.michael schmidtJust had a normal sort of walk into the office.michael schmidt[HUMMING] Half a block away, coming up to 17th michael barbaroIt doesnt seem like youre in a big hurry to get to the office.michael schmidtWell, all the work has been done. We know whats coming.michael schmidtHow are you?speakerHey, Mike.michael schmidtWhats going on?michael schmidtSo come into the building.michael schmidtBig day? No? Not a big day? All right.michael schmidtGet on the elevator.elevator voice announcerFloor seven.michael schmidtWalk into the office. And everyone wants to know speaker 1What do you got? What do you got?speaker 2Chasing the report.michael schmidtWhens it going to happen?speakerThis is the question I ask him every five michael schmidtDays or speakerDays or weeks.michael schmidtDays or weeks?michael schmidtThe whole apparatus of The New York Times is jacked up for this moment.michael schmidtWe got Nick here. Were all ready.speakerGangs all here.michael schmidtTheres been a lot of time and planning thats gone into this. Theres a lot of stories that have been written that are ready to go.speakerDoes that seem right?michael schmidtYep.speakerO.K.michael schmidtEveryones sitting around waiting, and they want answers.dean baquetSo whats the latest?michael schmidtDean Baquet, our executive editor, calls down to Washington to ask Elisabeth Bumiller, our bureau chief, what do you know?elisabeth bumillerYoure not so sure about it?michael schmidtIm less sure about the timing, but michael schmidtElizabeth calls me over to her desk, puts him on speakerphone. Mikey, what do you know?dean baquetDo you know much of a heads-up we may or may not get?michael schmidtMy guess is not a lot because I dont know what there is to get a heads-up on.michael schmidtAnd I said, I dont know.michael barbaro[LAUGHS] You tell them that you dont know.michael schmidtWe dont know!dean baquetO.K.elisabeth bumillerThats what we got.michael schmidtSo thats all we got.elisabeth bumillerAnd we have stories ready. Once we get the word from Justice, we just push a button.michael schmidtAll the work is done.elisabeth bumillerWere just tourists hanging around.michael schmidtWere sort of lemmings at this point.michael schmidtSo its sort of just having the same unsatisfying conversation with different people throughout the office for several hours while eating doughnuts.michael barbaro[LAUGHS]michael schmidtAnd then it happens.archived recordingThe special counsel investigation is over. Special Counsel Robert Mueller has concluded his investigation into Russian election interference and possible coordination with associates of President Donald Trump. That report has been submitted. Now the question is, what happens to it? How much gets released and when? That is up to the new attorney general, Bill Barr.michael barbaroSo what do we know at this stage? It is Friday afternoon. Whats our understanding?michael schmidtOur understanding is that the attorney general and his deputies now have a long weekend of reading ahead of them. They have to go through the report, see whats there, digest it, and then figure out what to do with it. How much of it should be made public, how much of it should be given to Congress, and how much of it should remain secret.michael barbaroIs that really all we know at this point? Is there anything about how this unfolded that tells us anything about the report or what Mueller has found, if hes decided to bring any charges against any figure in the White House, or how hes thinking about this?michael schmidtWe just know that Mueller is done. There are no more individuals that will be charged by the special counsels office in the investigation. If anyone else has gotten caught up in this, they will be indicted by other U.S. attorneys across the country who have absorbed investigations from the special counsels office.michael barbaroSo the version of the report that will go to Congress and be seen by the public is the version that the attorney general has had a chance to go through and decide which parts should be seen by the larger world and which should not. And thats still going to take a while for him to figure out.michael schmidtCorrect. And its a very difficult process, because if there is criminality in regards to the president, its a very tricky issue to navigate. The Justice Department has a policy that says the president cant be indicted. But if the president cant be indicted, Congress should deal with that behavior. How do you give that information to Congress? Its not a snap decision you can make  like, O.K., Muellers done, this is what he found. Lets put this in another box and send it to Congress. Its far trickier.michael barbaroSo how does the A.G. make the decision about what to include and what not to include in this report?michael schmidtBarr is in this incredibly difficult spot, because he has to figure out how much information to share with the public and Congress in a way that is enough to leave people convinced that this investigation was done thoroughly and based on following the facts. But he has to protect the president from disclosures about him that the public may be interested in, that his political enemies may want to know, but that has no bearing on the actual criminal investigation that was done.michael barbaroAnd does how the attorney general handles that balance depend, in your mind, Mike, on what the report from Mueller finds and says and recommends?michael schmidtYes. If Mueller says the president didnt break the law, then Barr has to figure out how much information to give to Congress so that Congress takes those findings seriously. The problem is Barr is in a very difficult spot politically, because the Democrats have already concluded the president did something wrong. So if Barr learns from Mueller that theres no criminality on the president, how does Barr then win over those Democrats and show them that Mueller truly made a decision based on the facts? How much of what the investigation found does he have to give to the Hill? In a normal criminal investigation, all of that information would not become public because the Justice Department would want to protect the individual who they have found did not commit a crime. But this situation is different, because a lot of people do think the president committed a crime. So how do you show the Democrats and the rest of the country that hey, look, this is what Mueller found. He only found X, Y, and Z. And if we wanted to make a case, he would have needed to have uncovered these other things, which he did not. And thats why were confident with his findings.michael barbaroAnd on the other hand, if Mueller does find criminality and perhaps recommend charges against the president, how does Barr have to proceed?michael schmidtWell, how much of the evidence that Mueller uncovered should go to Congress? What should be told to Congress? Should Congress be told explicitly, look, Mueller believes the president violated these laws, and heres the evidence to back it up? But what if some of that evidence has been obtained from a grand jury? The Justice Department cant just hand over grand jury information to Congress. What if the information is classified? Theyre not going to want to hand over classified information to Congress. They think Congress leaks like a sieve.michael barbaroIs it safe to say though, Mike, that if criminality is found by Mueller, Congress and the public will see more of the Muller report than if that is not found?michael schmidtMaybe. Maybe. But look, this is a highly unusual situation. The person who runs the executive branch, the president, has just been under investigation by folks inside of his own branch for the past 22 months. Very awkward situation.michael barbaroAnd the person making the decision about what we all will learn about that investigation is a direct appointee of that president.michael schmidtCorrect. Has the job because the president put him there. So the perception here is one where the average person looks at this and says, well, how can a guy who was made attorney general by the president look at this situation and make a decision that is free of politics? And how can I have confidence that this was done based on the facts?michael barbaroSo when will we know more? When will we know what the attorney general has decided on that front?michael schmidtOh, now you want to know more.michael barbaro[LAUGHS] Yes, please.michael schmidtThe greed of the news business.michael barbaroIf youll indulge us.michael schmidtWhen will we know more? Barr and his deputies will go through this, and I dont know  sometime in the next few days, sometime in the next few weeks. It may be a difficult process to unbraid. Mueller has been rummaging around the presidents life for 22 months. We dont have clarity into everything Muellers found. What if Barr looks at it and says, eh, Mueller thinks he violated this law and that law. But actually, I dont think he has it. Maybe theres not enough there. Maybe Barr disagrees with what Mueller has found, simply on a legal basis. The other thing is that Barr only really gets one shot to get it right. Whatever he goes out the door with in terms of handing over information to Congress, hes got to have it right. Hes not going to have a second chance to say, well, you know, I gave you that stuff. But like, meh, maybe its not what I thought it was. Or, oh, lets give you more. He has to get it right the first time. Otherwise, hell look like hes waffling.michael barbaroAnd how much of how Barr handles this will be with a mind toward the expectation that a Democratically controlled House of Representatives is already into a series of investigations that they only want to redouble once this report is in their hands?michael schmidtBarr clearly knows Congress is going to jump up and down until it is satisfied with the information that it wants about this investigation. He can drag that out and probably lose it one way or another, either in the court of public opinion or in the actual courts. So he probably just wants to get it over with as soon as possible. He knows this has been an enormous weight on the country, and that the sooner it is resolved, the sooner the country can move on.michael barbaroAnd Mike, what is the likelihood that the way we find out more about the Mueller report is not from the version thats sent to Congress, but from something else? I think were all really mindful of the fact that this is the era of the leak, and that this is the biggest potential leak in recent memory.michael schmidtYeah.michael barbaroWill it leak?michael schmidtI dont know. I mean, the number of people who will have access to this document will be very small. And they will know that if there are a lot of leaks about this, then the president can start to raise questions about whats really going on. It will look nefarious. The Democrats will get their backs up and say, well, if this stuff is leaking out, why cant we have access to it? They will know that their lives will be much more difficult if there are leaks here. Obviously, you could come up with a scenario where someone working on the investigation is frustrated that the Justice Department has decided to go one way or the other on the report, and they think, ah, screw it, Im going to make this public. But my guess is they have gone to great lengths to ensure that this is heavily protected.michael barbaroSo now we wait again.michael schmidtHurry up and wait.michael barbaroMike, thank you very much.michael schmidtThanks for having me.michael barbaroIn a letter to Democratic and Republican leaders of Congress sent on Friday afternoon, Attorney General William Barr said he would brief them on the major conclusions of the special counsels report as soon as this weekend. On Friday evening, The Times reported that Mueller is not recommending any new charges against President Trump or anyone else around him. Thats it for The Daily. Im Michael Barbaro. See you on Monday.A more sweeping obstacle will be any information that Mr. Trump seeks to shield by invoking executive privilege  the power to keep secret information whose disclosure could inhibit the executive branchs ability to carry out its constitutional functions, like chilling the candor of internal deliberations.There are two categories of information that may be protected by executive privilege: communications involving the president  which would most likely apply only to events after Mr. Trump was sworn in  and internal agency deliberations, including investigative files covering the campaign and transition.But the scope and limits of executive privilege are murky. Courts have held that Congress also has a right to gain access to information it needs to carry out its own constitutional functions of conducting oversight and enacting legislation.Because these rival imperatives overlap, courts have encouraged presidents and lawmakers to resolve disputes by negotiating compromises to accommodate both branches needs, like letting lawmakers read certain documents but not take copies of them. As a result, few disputes have resulted in definitive judicial rulings that could serve as guideposts if both sides dig in over the Mueller files.In recent years, the line the Justice Department has tried to hold has eroded because Republicans repeatedly demanded and gained access to internal law-enforcement information generated during the Obama era, including going to court to obtain department emails about how to respond to congressional inquiries about the gun trafficking investigation called Fast and Furious.Republican lawmakers also obtained information about the Hillary Clinton email server investigation, including a record of her F.B.I. interview and  with Mr. Trumps help  information about the early stages of the Trump-Russia investigation, including an intelligence wiretap order targeting Carter Page, a former adviser to the Trump campaign with links to Russia.A constitutional conflict is very likely in this circumstance, said Mark J. Rozell, author of the book Executive Privilege: Presidential Power, Secrecy and Accountability.I dont see the House backing down from its request to get access to the full record, and the president is certainly not going to allow that to happen to the extent that he can stop it, he added. This may need a judicial resolution.Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting.Follow Charlie Savage on Twitter: @charlie_savage.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON  President Trump will deliver his State of the Union address to Congress on Feb. 5, 10 days before the deadline for lawmakers in the House and the Senate to reach an agreement on a border security package to avert another government shutdown.Speaker Nancy Pelosi sent an invitation to the president on Monday afternoon, after the two spoke for about 12 minutes by telephone in a conversation that she initiated, an aide said. Mr. Trump later replied, agreeing to the date.We have a great story to tell and yet, great goals to achieve! he wrote.The invitation capped weeks of back-and-forth between the speaker and the president over when, and whether, he could deliver the speech in the House chamber.On Jan. 23, in the middle of the 35-day government shutdown, Ms. Pelosi told the president she wanted to postpone the address, initially scheduled for Tuesday, until after the government reopened, and even went as far as to suggest that he deliver the speech in writing.Mr. Trump retaliated by grounding the military plane that was supposed to take Ms. Pelosi and other lawmakers on a fact-finding trip to Afghanistan. Then, when Mr. Trump pressed ahead last week, insisting he wanted to give the speech on Tuesday, Ms. Pelosi disinvited him.When I wrote to you on January 23rd, I stated that we should work together to find a mutually agreeable date when government has reopened to schedule this years State of the Union address, Ms. Pelosi wrote Monday in the letter. In our conversation today, we agreed on February 5th.As part of their deal to end the shutdown, Mr. Trump and congressional Democrats agreed that a conference committee of House and Senate appropriators would have until Feb. 15 to come up with a border security package. If they fail to reach an agreement, or come up with a plan that is not to Mr. Trumps liking, the president has threatened to either shut down the government again or invoke emergency powers to circumvent Congress in obtaining money for a wall along the southwestern border.By hosting Mr. Trump before Feb. 15, Ms. Pelosi is effectively agreeing to give him a nationally televised platform in the middle of those negotiations. The invitation could be interpreted as an olive branch from the speaker to the president, who has little experience in dealing with an adversary as powerful as Ms. Pelosi and has at times seemed flummoxed by her.videoAdvertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Dave ItzkoffIt started off as a serious discussion about Jeff Bezos accusation that The National Enquirer was engaging in extortion and blackmail by threatening to expose his private photos. But the discussion didnt stay serious for long.In its opening sketch this week, Saturday Night Live presented a parody of Meet the Press, hosted by Chuck Todd (Kyle Mooney) and featuring the panelists Eugene Robinson (Kenan Thompson), Peggy Noonan (Cecily Strong) and Donna Brazile (Leslie Jones).Mooney began: Lets start with what everyones talking about. In a new low for journalism, The National Enquirer was accused this week of blackmailing Amazon C.E.O. Jeff Bezos.Youre all highly respected journalists, he continued. So, when all is said and done, what do you think Jeff Bezos penis is going to look like?Excuse me? Jones replied.The panelists offered various theories (except for Jones, who remained astounded), and Mooney asked what the scandal said about the overall state of the country.Thompson answered: Its disgraceful, Chuck. Its awful. I mean, this is a clear violation of someones privacy.And what about when the pictures do come out? Mooney asked.I will look at them, Thompson responded. I will make them into hilarious memes, and Ill send them to all my friends.The prurient subject matter derailed an interview with the commerce secretary, Wilbur Ross (Kate McKinnon), who protested: I dont want to talk about penises. Im one of the guys. I like watching sports and drinking a cold glass of blood.And the topic overwhelmed an interview with the acting attorney general, Matthew G. Whitaker (Aidy Bryant), who explained, I was U.S. attorney general for three months, and soon, I will go back to my job of breaking up fights on The Jerry Springer Show.Asked by Mooney if her Whitaker had ever been instructed by President Trump to interfere in the special counsels investigation, Bryant began to answer.Im going to say something I left out of my testimony, she said, and this is going to blow everything out of the water here. Mr. Trump actually called me and whispered to me Mooney interrupted: Im being told that the Bezos pics have actually come out at this very moment, he said, vowing to devote the rest of the program to the photos.A sketch set at the Virginia State Capitol began with Thompson addressing a group of politicians there. So were all in agreement that the lieutenant governor should be encouraged to step down, he said, adding:One more quick thing before we get out of here. As you all know, earlier this week, our governor admitted to wearing blackface in college as part of a costume. And then later the attorney general. Its extremely embarrassing to the state, and as chair of the ethics committee, I have to ask: Has anybody else worn blackface in college?One by one, the elected officials posed oblivious questions as each confessed to having worn blackface.Does it count if you did it all the way back in the 80s? Strong asked.No, of course not, Mikey Day answered. It was funny and cool in the 80s.Thompson corrected them both. No, no, Im going to stop you right there, Phil, he said. It does still count, and it was never funny or cool.Mooney asked, What if you wore the blackface as a tribute, like an homage to your hero?Who was your hero? Thompson said.Al Jolson, Mooney answered.Returning to an idea it introduced in December, S.N.L. offered another installment of Them Trumps, in which the first familys life is presented like the Fox drama Empire, and the president is Darius Trump (Thompson).In this episode, Darius Trump is being sped by limousine to his State of the Union address, telling the other passengers in the car that he will push back against the special counsels investigation.This is America, Thompson declares, and even though Im black As police lights become visible in the rear window, he is interrupted by an aide played by Halsey, the evenings mononymous host and musical guest.O.K., were getting pulled over, she says.Oh, yeah, I knew that was coming, Thompson says under his breath.A sketch titled Women of Congress started off as if it were going to be a satire of Charlies Angels: Nancy Pelosi (McKinnon) leads an action-packed team of female politicians who dont often get the spotlight on S.N.L., including Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (Melissa Villaseor), Maxine Waters (Jones), Kyrsten Sinema (Strong), Ilhan Omar (Ego Nwodim), Ann McLane Kuster (Aidy Bryant), Abigail Spanberger (Heidi Gardner) and Rashida Tlaib (Halsey).Then, shortly after its opening credits, it ended. Well, maybe another time, ladies.At the Weekend Update desk, the anchors Colin Jost and Michael Che continued to riff on the political scandals that have roiled Virginia over the past several days:Che:You know, making jokes about the news can get a little redundant for me. But every so often, you see a picture of a governor in blackface and Im like, Thisll be fun. So first, the governor of Virginia admitted to wearing blackface in college for a Michael Jackson costume  by the way, making it the least accurate Michael Jackson costume possible. That would be crazy enough, but then the attorney general was like, You, too? Blackface is my jam. And then Liam Neeson was like, Blackface? Hold my beer. I didnt want to bring this up ever before, but I was trying to kill a black dude with a baseball bat. Anyhoo, so my movie comes out Friday.Jost:Virginia Governor Ralph Northam is still refusing to resign after a racist photo from his yearbook surfaced. O.K., but if it was in a yearbook, how bad could it be? [The photograph is shown onscreen.] Oh. O.K. So, very bad. I knew it was a yearbook, but I didnt know the year was 1870.A bit later, Jost added:Democrats are now calling for Northam to resign, but the second in line is embroiled in now two sexual assault scandals, and the third in line also did blackface. So at this point, maybe Virginia should take a cue from the Oscars and just go without a governor this year. Or they could just come full circle and make it Governor Kevin Hart.When Chris Redd, Jones, Thompson and Nwodim came on stage to celebrate Black History Month and pay homage to previous cast members like Garrett Morris, Eddie Murphy and Ellen Cleghorne, were you expecting a totally sincere tribute?The segment took a satirical turn with the entrance of Mooney, a white man, who claimed he wanted to support his co-stars but kept interrupting to explain black history to them.Did you know African-American contributions to entertainment didnt start with Saturday Night Live? Mooney asked to their chagrin.To Sir With Love was one of the best movies of the 60s, he added. America was surprised to see a black leading man. But we always knew what we were capable of.Addressing the other performers on the stage, Jones asked: Did he say, We? He said, We.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Ernesto LondooRIO DE JANEIRO  Just over four months ago, Jair Bolsonaro was fighting for his life after being stabbed in the gut during a presidential campaign rally. On Tuesday, after a quick recovery and an unlikely victory, he was sworn in as Brazils president, steering Latin Americas largest nation far to the right in a political shift that was evident even during his inauguration.As he addressed a crowd from the presidential palace amid unusually tight security that underscored his worry about a new assassination attempt, Mr. Bolsonaro waved a Brazilian flag and proclaimed that on that day, Brazilians were being freed from socialism.The countrys flag would never be red again, he said, alluding to the rival Workers Party as he stood next to his wife and Vice President Hamilton Mouro, even if it takes our blood to keep it green and yellow.The Workers Party, which had won the last four presidential elections, was crushed in the October vote after the country slipped into recession, violence soared and corruption scandals tarred much of the elite. It boycotted the swearing-in ceremony, reflecting the lingering bitterness of a presidential race that polarized Brazilians like none other in recent history.Longstanding allies like Cuba, Venezuela and Nicaragua were not invited to the ceremony, in a clear signal of Brazils political shift. Instead, conservative governments played prominent roles as guests in the capital, Braslia  or as supporters weighing in on social media.Shortly after Mr. Bolsonaro wrapped up his address to Congress, President Trump hailed his speech in a message on Twitter and pledged: The U.S.A. is with you!Minutes later, Mr. Bolsonaro responded to the American president: I truly appreciate your words of encouragement. Together, under Gods protection, we shall bring prosperity and progress to our people.The Brazilian and American presidents have similar views, temperaments and styles, increasing the likelihood of closer relations between two countries that have been uneasy allies in the past.Stronger ties could mean more cooperation on Venezuela, where mismanagement of the economy has created a humanitarian crisis, and could put greater distance between Cuba and Brazil. The United States could also try to lean on Brazil to blunt Chinas growing influence in Latin America, though, because China is Brazils main trading partner, Mr. Bolsonaro would have little room to maneuver, experts said.United States Secretary of State Mike Pompeo attended the ceremony, along with Hungarys hard-right prime minister, Viktor Orban, and Israels conservative leader, Benjamin Netanyahu, who said Mr. Bolsonaro had told him that moving Brazils embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem was a matter of when, not if.While his victory in October was decisive, Brazilians remain deeply divided about their new president, a former army captain who has hailed the countrys military dictators and made numerous disparaging remarks about women and minority groups.Mr. Bolsonaro, a strident populist, rose to power by tapping anger toward the Workers Party and presenting himself as their opposite  an outsider ready to take a wrecking ball to the political establishment and, through business-friendly policies, put the worlds eighth-largest economy back on track.During his first address to Congress, he promised to chart a bright new chapter for the country.Building a more just and developed nation requires doing away with practices that have been nefarious for all of us, Mr. Bolsonaro said, shortly after he was sworn in. Irresponsibility led us to the worst ethical, moral and economic crisis of our history.Mr. Bolsonaro said it would take arduous work to make Brazil, still recovering from a brutal recession that began in 2014, into a strong, striving, confident and bold nation.While supporters in Braslia chanted mito, or legend, as Mr. Bolsonaro was handed the presidential band, Brazilians who opposed him spoke in apocalyptic terms about the dawning era.We are returning to 1964, said Snia Guajajara, an indigenous rights activist who ran as the vice-presidential candidate of the leftist Socialism and Liberty Party, referring to the year in which Brazils 21-year military regime began. The imminent risk of a dictatorship puts us in a permanent state of alert.Mr. Bolsonaros swearing-in ended the short, tumultuous presidency of Michel Temer, who assumed power in August 2016 following the impeachment of President Dilma Rousseff of the Workers Party.Mr. Temer, a center-right politician, led Brazil through a halting economic recovery. But his quest to make systemic reforms  including an overhaul of Brazils bloated pension system  was derailed after he was charged with corruption and obstruction of justice in 2017.Mr. Bolsonaro takes office with a healthier economy and a significant mandate, said Monica de Bolle, a Brazilian economist who heads the Latin American Studies program at Johns Hopkins University. But she predicted that his first months in office would be turbulent, as factions within his inner circle, which includes top military figures, free-market economists and evangelical leaders, vie for supremacy.Building support for pension reform, an unpopular measure that economists say is crucial to Brazils long-term economic health, will be the key test of Mr. Bolsonaros ability, she said.Over the next few months well have a better idea of whos going to be in charge within the confusion that is Bolsonaros inner circle, said Ms. de Bolle, who was a vocal critic of Mr. Bolsonaro during the campaign. I think there are a lot of question marks regarding what the priorities will be and who will be calling the shots.After his victory, Mr. Bolsonaro assembled a cabinet that signaled his intention to make good on his anticorruption, tough-on-crime promises and to do away with politics as usual.Unlike former presidents, who handed out ministerial positions to members of powerful political parties in exchange for support in the legislature, he packed his government with military leaders, technocrats and ideologues, some with little or no political experience.Mr. Bolsonaro chose several men who passed through the armed forces to form his government  including his running mate, the retired general Hamilton Mouro  a remarkable about-face for a nation that kept the military largely out of sight after the end of its rule and a transition to democracy in the mid-1980s.He also tapped Srgio Moro, a federal judge known for his leading role in an anticorruption investigation that led to the downfall of dozens of powerful business leaders and politicians  and landed former President Luiz Incio Lula da Silva in prison, crushing his bid to return to power and eliminating Mr. Bolsonaros chief rival.Mr. Moros nomination illustrated how polarized Brazil has become. Supporters welcomed it as a sign that Mr. Bolsonaro was serious about fighting corruption. But many Brazilians saw the appointment as confirmation that the judges conviction of Mr. da Silva in 2017, on money laundering and corruption charges, was motivated by politics.Mr. Bolsonaros unorthodox choices have pleased Brazilians  75 percent of them believe he and his team are on the right track, according to a survey by a leading polling firm, Ibope.But turning his back on traditional parties may leave Mr. Bolsonaro and his nascent government unable to build dependable coalitions in a fractious legislature split among 30 parties.Under pressure to deliver, Mr. Bolsonaro could focus on high-profile issues where he can effect immediate change. After running on the promise he would relax Brazils onerous gun ownership regulations and make it easier for the police to kill criminals, he said on Twitter that he would, by issuing an executive order, allow civilians without a criminal record to buy weapons for self-protection.Experts said these measures might worsen violence in the country, which had a record 63,880 killings in 2017; of those 5,144 were killed by police officers. Mr. Bolsonaros promise to loosen gun regulations has driven more Brazilians to sign up for shooting practice at gun ranges and boosted the stock price of Taurus Armas, Brazils main gun manufacturer.The president, who has proclaimed he is homophobic, with pride, on Tuesday vowed to shield children from gender ideology, a reference to teachings about sexual orientation and gender identity, which loomed large during the campaign as parents were warned that children were being exposed to inappropriate and lewd concepts.In anticipation of an unraveling of rights, same-sex couples in Brazil are rushing to wed. Opponents of Mr. Bolsonaro have also reported a rash of politically motivated attacks.Follow Ernesto Londoo on Twitter: @londonoe.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byat warBy Lauren KatzenbergAt War is a newsletter about the experiences and costs of war. Sign up here to get it delivered to your inbox every Friday. In July 2018, At War published a piece by Jonathan Bratten that traced the history of wartime graffiti over more than 150 years of conflict and described how it has come to define military culture with its own vocabulary, characters and aesthetics. These drawings, scratchings and markings serve a far greater purpose than merely offering a glimpse into the past: They are a defiant and public proclamation of a human beings existence, Bratten noted. I asked readers to send in their own photos from deployment and an explanation of why the graffiti they documented resonated with them. Here are some of my favorites.Stephen Richey, U.S. Army, 1977-2010I took this photo of an interior wall of a gate guard tower at Victory Base in Baghdad in 2004. The graffiti is a classic example of the grim and cynical sense of humor soldiers cultivate in order to maintain their sanity in war. Ron Capps, U.S. Army, 1983-2008There was a huge field on the outskirts of Kabul where Army engineers had dragged and left the surviving armor from Taliban units after Kabul fell. My team was wandering around in that field one afternoon and came across this. The spellings not perfect, but the sentiment is clear. Wesley Morgan, Politico reporterI took this photo at a British military outpost called Airport Lounge in Helmands Sangin district in June 2010, when Sangin was one of the two or three most dangerous districts in the country for allied troops. The previous unit at the outpost had left this bit of art to commemorate its dead  the reconnaissance platoon of Third Battalion, the Rifles, or 3 Rifles Battle Group, as the unit was known. During its six-month tour, which ended a couple of months before my visit to Sangin, 3 Rifles had taken some of the worst casualties of any American or British battalion to serve in Afghanistan. Max Anderson, Army National Guard, 2005-2011This is a unit mural for Delta Company, 1-161 Infantry, 81st Heavy Brigade Combat Team, painted by soldiers from the unit. I took this photograph in 2009 at Joint Base Balad, Iraq. The mural has the names of all members of the unit who were deployed at the time. Other soldiers and airmen on the base would stop by regularly to take pictures. Jereme Coker, U.S. Army, 2003-2006This wall, which belonged to Uday Hussein, was tagged in Baghdad in 2004 to represent Third Platoon, as well as to convey a message to new arrivals: We were here, we fought here. Two Veterans Groups, Left and Right, Join Forces Against the Forever Wars: The groups intend to share a legislative agenda that presses for changes to war authorization measures and an end to the United States presence in Afghanistan.A New Age of Warfare: How Internet Mercenaries Do Battle for Authoritarian Governments: Sophisticated surveillance, once the domain of world powers, is increasingly available on the private market. Smaller countries are seizing on the tools  sometimes for darker purposes.Taliban Capture About 150 Afghan Soldiers After Chase Into Turkmenistan: The neighboring country forced the troops back across the border, officials said, in what is believed to be the biggest setback for the Afghan security forces since a Taliban offensive in August.He Says His Work as a Jihadist Spy Caused PTSD. Denmark Awarded Him $27,000.: Morten Storm, who outlined his life as a Qaeda jihadist who became an informant, was found to have experienced exceptionally dangerous events.U.S.-Backed Forces in Syria Arrest Suspects in Attack That Killed 4 Americans: The captives are suspected of involvement in a restaurant bombing in January, in which at least 11 Syrians also died.Report Says U.S. Airstrikes Have Killed 14 Civilians in Somalia: Since President Trump relaxed rules on airstrikes in Somalia, a number of civilians have been killed, Amnesty International said.Pentagon Opens Internal Inquiry of Acting Defense Chiefs Ties to Boeing: Patrick M. Shanahans relationship with his former employers, and complaints that he disparaged Boeing competitors while at the Pentagon, have come under scrutiny.Trump Wants U.S. to Recognize Israeli Sovereignty Over the Golan Heights: Israel claimed the territory from Syria in a 1967 war and annexed it in 1981 in a move that has never been recognized internationally.Lauren Katzenberg is the editor of The New York Times At War channel. Wed love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email thoughts and suggestions to atwar@nytimes.com. Or invite someone to subscribe through this link.Read more from At War here or follow us on Twitter.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Sarah MervoshPresident Trump has talked for years about hosting a patriotic parade in Washington, and on Sunday he announced that something of the sort would take place in a Fourth of July gathering at the Lincoln Memorial.HOLD THE DATE! Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter about the event, which he said would be called A Salute to America.The president, who is also fond of hosting rallies for his supporters, added that the celebration would include a major fireworks display, entertainment and an address by your favorite President, me!Mr. Trump has long said he wanted to stage a display of American military might, musing about a parade on Pennsylvania Avenue or a Veterans Day extravaganza. He got the idea after watching a Bastille Day parade on the Champs-lyses in 2017, but was stymied last year by spiraling costs that rendered his vision too expensive.It was unclear whether the Independence Day celebration he announced on Sunday would include any type of parade, or a display of tanks, fighter planes and troops.On social media, critics questioned how the event would differ from Mr. Trumps campaign rallies and accused him of taking credit for an Independence Day celebration that happens on the National Mall every year.It is a shame that Donald Trump has decided to hijack the already-planned, non-political Capitol Fourth, to honor himself with a rally, VoteVets, a progressive veterans group, said on Twitter. If it involves the military parading to boost his ego, we will do everything we can to stop it.Mr. Trump said at a meeting of his cabinet at the White House this month that he was envisioning a gathering, as opposed to a parade, I guess youd have to say.He enlisted David Bernhardt, the acting secretary of the interior, whose department oversees the National Park Service, to help plan it. David, youre taking care of that, and well see how it works out with schedules and everything else, Mr. Trump said at the meeting.On Sunday, Mr. Trump indicated that the event would take place, but few details were available. In a statement on Sunday, the Interior Department said the National Park Service was working diligently to provide the president with a plan for Salute to America, adding, At this time, everything is pre-decisional.Jim Mattis, the former defense secretary, objected to having the American military march in lock step down Constitution Avenue, accompanied by tanks and fighter planes. The Defense Department estimated the cost last year for a Veterans Day parade at $92 million, sending the White House into sticker shock and prompting Mr. Trump to fold on his order.During his meeting at the White House, Mr. Trump said he had already found some savings: free fireworks. The event would coincide with the annual fireworks put on by the National Park Service, which paid $270,000 for an 18-minute show last year.Mr. Trump has seemed smitten with the idea of a military parade since the early days of his presidency. The committee planning his inaugural ceremony reportedly explored, but rejected, using military equipment in the traditional parade from the Capitol to the White House.In July 2017, Mr. Trump witnessed the grandeur of a military parade at the annual Bastille Day celebration in Paris. He could be seen gesticulating and whispering at the elaborate display of tanks, soldiers on horseback and military jets flying overhead.We are going to have to try and top it, he said.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byGood Monday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today._____________________ Mike Pompeo will face his greatest test as secretary of state this week, when he accompanies President Trump to a summit meeting with North Koreas leaders: He must keep Mr. Trump from giving away U.S. leverage on denuclearization while remaining in Mr. Trumps good graces. Vice President Mike Pence is commonly seen around Washington as a mute helpmate to a bombastic president. On foreign soil, he has toyed with the idea of branching out  just not too far. Mr. Trump delayed his own deadline to increase tariffs on $200 billion in Chinese imports, citing substantial progress during a week of trade talks in Washington between American and Chinese officials. Last week, home for the first district workweek of their term, moderate Democrats got to see firsthand how the voices of a small but vocal number of liberal lawmakers are reverberating in far more marginal districts. Even before Democrats finish drafting bills to create a single-payer health care system, the health care and insurance industries have assembled a small army of lobbyists to kill Medicare for all. Representative Adam B. Schiff, the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said that House Democrats were prepared to go to court to force the release of the final report from the special counsel, Robert Mueller, if it were not made public. Who is Konstantin Kilimnik, and what did he and Paul Manafort, Mr. Trumps former campaign chairman, discuss in 2016? Heres the story behind the Russian operative pivotal to the special counsel investigation. Federal prosecutors portrayed Mr. Manafort as a hardened, remorseless criminal who repeatedly and brazenly violated a host of laws over more than a decade. Justice Democrats, the small grass-roots organization that helped Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez win her House seat, wants to replace more centrist Democrats with liberal candidates. That has made some lawmakers uneasy. Gov. Larry Hogan of Maryland, a moderate Republican, told The Times that he was not actively preparing to run against Mr. Trump. But he said he was open to running and listening to appeals from Mr. Trumps Republican critics. Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York traveled to Iowa to advise Democrats on how to take back the White House in 2020  even as he was unsure if that strategy included his candidacy._____________________Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Is there anything you think were missing? Anything you want to see more of? Wed love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Eric Schmitt and Charlie SavageWASHINGTON  The American military has escalated a battle against the Shabab, an extremist group affiliated with Al Qaeda, in Somalia even as President Trump seeks to scale back operations against similar Islamist insurgencies elsewhere in the world, from Syria and Afghanistan to West Africa.A surge in American airstrikes over the last four months of 2018 pushed the annual death toll of suspected Shabab fighters in Somalia to the third record high in three years. Last year, the strikes killed 326 people in 47 disclosed attacks, Defense Department data show.[For more stories about the experiences and costs of war, sign up for the weekly At War newsletter.]And so far this year, the intensity is on a pace to eclipse the 2018 record. During January and February, the United States Africa Command reported killing 225 people in 24 strikes in Somalia. Double-digit death tolls are becoming routine, including a bloody five-day stretch in late February in which the military disclosed that it had killed 35, 20 and 26 people in three separate attacks.Africa Command maintains that its death toll includes only Shabab militants, even though the extremist group claims regularly that civilians are also killed. The Times could not independently verify the number of civilians killed. The rise in airstrikes has also exacerbated a humanitarian crisis in the country, according to United Nations agencies and nongovernmental organizations working in the region, as civilians are displaced by conflict and extreme weather.People need to pay attention to the fact that there is this massive war going on, said Brittany Brown, who worked on Somalia policy at the National Security Council in the Obama and Trump administrations and is now the chief of staff of the International Crisis Group, a nonprofit organization focused on deadly conflicts.The war in Somalia appears to be on autopilot, she added, and one that is drawing the United States significantly deeper into an armed conflict without much public debate.The United States has escalated its airstrike campaign against Qaeda-backed Shabab militants in Somalia during the Trump administration.15Airstrikes, by monthTrump administration105201516171819Estimated death toll from airstrikes, by day150Trump administration120906030201516171819Airstrikes, by month15Trump administration105201516171819Estimated death tollfrom airstrikes, by day150Trump administration12090603020151617181915Airstrikes, by monthTrump administration105201516171819Estimated death toll from airstrikes, by day150Trump administration120906030201516171819Note: An exact death toll is not available for each airstrike.Source: FDD's Long War Journals analysis of Defense Department releases.By The New York TimesSomalia, a country that occupies a key strategic location in the Horn of Africa, has faced civil war, droughts and an influx of Islamist extremists over the years. The growing United States military engagement stands in stark contrast to the near-abandonment not long after the Black Hawk Down battle in 1993, which left 18 Americans and hundreds of militia fighters dead.The intensifying bombing campaign undercuts the Trump administrations intended pivot to confront threats from great powers like China and Russia, and away from long counterinsurgency and counterterrorism campaigns that have been the Pentagons focus since 2001.Analysts suggested that the increase in American strikes may also reflect an unspoken effort by American commanders to inflict as much punishment on the Shabab while they can.Many of our commanders probably see a renewed urgency to degrade the enemy quickly and forcefully, said Luke Hartig, a former senior director for counterterrorism at the National Security Council during the Obama administration.Gen. Thomas D. Waldhauser, the head of Africa Command, said planned cutbacks elsewhere would not affect what the military is doing in Somalia.Well maintain our capability and capacity there, General Waldhauser told the House Armed Services Committee last Thursday. Africa Command is scaling back American forces nearly everywhere else on the continent in a move that poses a particular threat for West Africa, which is grappling with a range of extremist groups.The Shabab formally pledged allegiance to Al Qaeda in 2012. But long before that, they fought Western-backed governments in Mogadishu as the group sought to impose its extremist interpretation of Islam across Somalia. In defending the fragile government, the United States has largely relied on proxy forces, including about 20,000 African Union peacekeepers from Uganda, Kenya and other East African nations.The United States estimates that the Shabab have about 5,000 to 7,000 fighters in Somalia, but the groups ranks are fluid. A State Department official, citing interviews from Shabab deserters, said that the number of hard-core ideologues may be as few as 500.There are also now roughly 500 American troops in Somalia. Most are Special Operations forces stationed at a small number of bases spread across the country. Their missions include training and advising Somali army and counterterrorism troops and conducting kill-or-capture raids of their own.The Shabab have proved resilient against the American airstrikes, and continue to carry out regular bombings in East Africa.A range of current and former American officials said no seismic strategic shift explains the increased airstrikes and higher body count; the mission remains providing security so the fledgling Somali government will have time and space to develop its own effective military and security services.But they noted a range of contributing factors for the rise in tempo and lethality of the military campaign.Taking a page from counterinsurgency tactics developed in Afghanistan, American forces have helped Somali soldiers build several outposts across Somalia, about 20 percent of which is still controlled by the Shabab. One is named for Staff Sgt. Alexander W. Conrad, of Chandler, Ariz., who was killed in a mortar attack last year while he helped to build it.The Shabab leadership views the outposts as an irritant, masses to go after it, but fails, Maj. Gen. Gregg Olson, the Africa Commands director of operations, said in an interview.In turn, that has put attacking Shabab fighters in the cross hairs of American airstrikes to defend the Somali forces.Several officials said intelligence operations  including aerial surveillance, electronic intercepts and informant networks  have improved over the past year.American troops with the secretive Joint Special Operations Command have built up informant networks that lead to raids and strikes, after which they collect cellphones, laptops and documents to generate information for more.The drawdown of American military operations elsewhere in the world  including in Syria and, to a lesser immediate extent, Afghanistan  also has most likely freed up more drones and other gunships for use over Somalia, several former United States officials said.We were geared up for counterterrorism efforts in Somalia, and now there are more resources to do it, so were doing more of it, suggested Stephen Schwartz, who served as the United States ambassador to Somalia from 2016 to 2017, although he cautioned that he had no current insider knowledge.It could be there is some well-thought-out strategy behind all of this, Mr. Schwartz added, but I really doubt it.The loosening of Obama-era constraints on using force in Somalia, as approved by President Trump in 2017, has also contributed.Shortly after taking office, Mr. Trump declared Somalia to be an area of active hostilities subject to war-zone rules. That freed the United States military to carry out offensive operations whenever Shabab militants presented themselves  including against foot soldiers without special skills or roles.Mr. Trump also delegated authority to commanders to carry out strikes without high-level interagency vetting. But Africa Command was initially slow to embrace it, waiting months before it carried out its first strike in 2017 under the new rules.Now, however, it has opened the throttle, according to military data compiled by Bill Roggio, a senior fellow at the Foundation for the Defense of Democracies, who has tracked counterterrorism airstrikes for more than a decade on his Long War Journal.Many of the recent airstrikes have targeted large groups of suspected fighters, killing more than 10 people in a single fierce swoop. Africa Command has disclosed strikes and estimated death tolls in a series of terse news releases, earning scant attention from Congress or the news media.Along with the European Union and the United Nations, the United States also has continued to invest in so-called soft power assistance to Somalia, providing humanitarian aid such as food to drought victims, and development programs on education and training.Officials cited signs of recent incremental progress in efforts to help the Somali government build a functional national army. And in December, the United States re-established a permanent diplomatic presence in Somalia for the first time since 1991. The current United States ambassador to Somalia, Donald Yamamoto, lives in Mogadishu, although the mission consists of a windowless bunker at the well-guarded airport.There is good reason for caution. In 2013, Shabab militants carried out a deadly attack at the Westgate mall in the Kenyan capital of Nairobi. In January, they attacked a luxury hotel and office complex in Nairobi, killing 21 people. And in late February, the Shabab claimed a double bombing and the siege of a hotel in Mogadishu that killed at least 25 people.General Olson said the military would continue to go after the Shabab as long as that is its mission.We go after the network when the network presents itself, whether a single node or a concentration, he said. Weve developed intelligence and are sussing out the relationship between the leadership and those being led; between those being led and those being trained or recruited or massed for an attack.We understand the network better than we have in years past, General Olson said.An earlier version of a graphic in this article excluded some estimates of the number of people killed in airstrikes in 2015 and 2016. More than an estimated 150 people were killed in that period, not 14.Thomas Gibbons-Neff contributed reporting.Follow Eric Schmitt and Charlie Savage on Twitter: @EricSchmittNYT and @charlie_savage. Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Ali Watkins[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]Anthony Comello was known as an aimless young man on his familys block in Staten Island, where he lived in his parents house. He could be helpful, offering during snowstorms to plow the streets with his pickup and to clear snow from neighbors driveways. But he also believed in far-right conspiracy theories, had an OxyContin habit and could be aggressive when he was high, people who knew him said.Still, he was not the kind of person anyone imagined would someday pull off the highest-profile mob killing in decades.Mr. Comello, a 24-year-old born and raised on Staten Islands South Shore, is accused of gunning down a Gambino crime family leader, Francesco (Franky Boy) Cali, on a quiet street in Todt Hill last week.The shooting rocketed Mr. Comello, an otherwise unsensational young man who was struggling to launch his adult life, into true-crime infamy. But in the days since Mr. Cali, 53, was shot 10 times, Mr. Comello  as well as his motive  has remained a cipher.The police have not explained how Mr. Comello even crossed into Mr. Calis orbit, let alone why he allegedly decided to kill him. Mr. Comello has no known connection to organized crime, according to law enforcement officials and his friends.Whatever the motive of the shooting, the Gambino crime family has not historically been a forgiving entity, and officials say Mr. Comello faces a threat to his life in prison. He was being held in protective custody in New Jersey and was expected to be transferred to Staten Island on Monday.An outlandish twist came this week when Mr. Comello, at his first court appearance, displayed symbols and phrases associated with far-right conspiracy theories, scrawled on his palm with a pen. His lawyer said he had become obsessed with such theories in recent months. In February, officials said, Mr. Comello had shown up at public buildings announcing he wanted to make a citizens arrest of prominent liberal Democrats like Mayor Bill de Blasio.In his only comments since his arrest, Mr. Comello was cryptic. Dont believe in fairy tales, he said to a Daily News reporter on March 20, before abruptly ending a short jailhouse interview.How all of the storys incongruous pieces  a mob boss, a far-right conspiracy theory, a struggling young man from a middle-class Staten Island home  fit together remains unknown. Yet a fuller picture has emerged of a rudderless person who appeared to take an abruptly ominous turn and had been influenced by conspiracy theories in the dark corners of the internet.The son of a veteran manager at Bloomberg L.P. and a construction worker, Mr. Comello graduated from Tottenville High School in 2012. He was described by two former classmates as aloof but easily influenced, a teenager who sought approval from popular crowds but was never quite accepted into them.He experimented in high school with drugs, two former classmates said, and occasionally picked fights while under the influence. According to social media accounts, Mr. Comello started a Facebook group in 2011 to discuss prices of marijuana.But as high school friends matured and moved forward, Mr. Comello spiraled downward. By adulthood, his drug habit had escalated into a serious problem. According to three friends, Mr. Comello wrestled with drug addiction and popped pills, including OxyContin.A habitual smoker of Marlboro Reds, he was a regular at Campos deli a few blocks from his familys home. Didar Janid, a deli employee, said Mr. Comello was friendly but had a combative reputation.He was a little bit aggressive, Mr. Janid, 46, said. Gradually he was calming down.[I just heard the pow-pow-pow-pow-pow. Read more about the fatal shooting of Francesco Cali on Staten Island.]Mr. Comellos mother, Nicole Mucillo-Comello, 51, is a well-established executive overseeing information systems in the Bloomberg organization, where she has worked for 28 years, according to her social media accounts. His father, Alfonso Comello, 54, worked in Staten Islands construction industry.Anthony Comello is the middle of three children. His older brother, Alfonso, 30, works in construction and was a mason for the New York City Housing Authority until 2016. Mr. Comellos younger sister, Nicolette, 21, attends St. Johns University, according to her social media profile.On Retford Avenue, where Mr. Comello lived with his parents in a spacious, two-story home, he led a quiet existence. He was sometimes seen walking the neighborhood with a friend who lived nearby, neighbors said. Reached by a reporter, the friend declined to comment.Mr. Comello appeared to have odd construction jobs and was often seen working with his father, according to neighbors. The family home had a fleet of pickup trucks, one said.Ive seen his parents numerous times, said Victor Ujeck, who lives across the street from the familys home. Very nice people.I would never imagine he could have done this, Mr. Ujeck said. I was shocked.Law enforcement officials were initially investigating whether Mr. Comello had a romantic interest in a female relative of Mr. Calis.In an early conversation with detectives, Mr. Comello said Mr. Cali had told him to stay away from a young woman in the Cali family, the police said. Yet neighbors and friends did not recall hearing about a girlfriend or a love interest.Despite his drug use and intermittent scuffles, Mr. Comello had no serious run-ins with the law before this year. Whatever his criminal inclinations, they escalated from bland to bizarre in February, when United States Marshals kicked him out of a Manhattan federal courthouse. Mr. Comello had entered the building and demanded a citizens arrest of local and national political figures, including Mr. de Blasio and the Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi.The stunt was noticed by the city police and the marshals, who law enforcement officials say put out a bulletin alerting other city institutions to watch for Mr. Comello. The following day, he was seen at the mayors residence, Gracie Mansion, where officers recognized him. Mr. Comello left the property before the situation escalated, but spoke briefly with officers.These were rambling statements, said John Miller, the chief of the New York Police Departments intelligence division. ""He wanted to make a citizens arrest of Maxine Waters, Congressman Schiff. He blamed Nancy Pelosi and all kinds of other people for stealing the election.The motivation for Mr. Comellos February stunt became clearer Monday, when he was arraigned in a New Jersey court. As he entered the courtroom, he raised his open palm, where he had scrawled the letter Q and several phrases associated with the QAnon conspiracy theory.That baseless theory suggests, among other things, the United States government is run by pedophiles and President Trump will overthrow them. It encourages followers not to trust career politicians, particularly Democratic ones.Mr. Comellos lawyer, Robert Gottlieb, said the young man became fascinated with QAnon and other far-right internet narratives involving Mr. Trump. Friends and family, Mr. Gottlieb said, described a noticeable and recent shift in Mr. Comellos personality as he fell deeper into digital rabbit holes.[What is QAnon? Explaining the internet conspiracy theory.]In the days since Mr. Comellos arrest, his family has all but gone underground. Attempts to reach his parents were unsuccessful; a neighbor said Wednesday that he had seen the family packing bags and leaving their Eltingville home, and thought they had moved out. At Mr. Comellos older brothers home, a man said the family did not want to talk. At a separate address listed for an apparent relative, a man told a reporter to take a walk.Mr. Calis murder was not the Comello familys first brush with the law. Mr. Comellos older brother, Alfonso, is currently facing felony assault and burglary charges in Richmond County for an incident in Staten Island last September, charges that he denies and is fighting.According to a criminal complaint, Alfonso Comello entered the home of a woman he knew on Sept. 25 with an accomplice and beat the womans face with the handle of a knife. The beating was violent enough to knock out several of the womans teeth.The woman, whose name was redacted in court papers, was tied to a bed as Alfonso Comello rummaged through drawers and demanded money. He has pleaded not guilty. His lawyer, Arthur Louis Aidala, said Alfonso Comello categorically denied the charges.Missing from the Comello family troubles, however, is any obvious connection to Mr. Cali.According to the police, Anthony Comello entered Mr. Calis neighborhood late on March 13 and backed his blue pickup truck into Mr. Calis Cadillac Escalade, knocking off the S.U.V.s license plate.He rang Mr. Calis doorbell and the two walked outside and exchanged words, according to surveillance video obtained by the police. Mr. Comello picked up the Escalades license plate, and handed it to Mr. Cali. Then he allegedly pulled a pistol and opened fire and fired 12 shots, hitting Mr. Cali 10 times. He drove away in his pickup.Mr. Comellos fingerprints were found on the license plate, the police said.Something went very wrong here, Mr. Gottlieb said.An earlier version of this article misidentified the origin of the QAnon conspiracy theory. It was born on the 4chan message board, not on Reddit.Reporting was contributed by Ali Winston, Nate Schweber, Laura Dimon and Sean Piccoli.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael Tackett and Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON  As a partial government shutdown entered its third week, negotiations between Vice President Mike Pence and congressional aides from both parties yielded little progress on Saturday while the impact on government services and on federal workers was worsening by the day.Not much headway made today, President Trump conceded on Twitter, not long after the vice presidents office characterized the roughly two-hour talks, held next to the White House at the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, as productive.V.P. Mike Pence and team just left the White House. Briefed me on their meeting with the Schumer/Pelosi representatives. Not much headway made today. Second meeting set for tomorrow. After so many decades, must finally and permanently fix the problems on the Southern Border!The two sides are scheduled to meet again Sunday afternoon, but there was little hope that the broad divide between Mr. Trump and Democrats over his demand for more than $5 billion for a border wall would be bridged anytime soon. Saturdays talks came a day after Mr. Trump said the government shutdown could continue for months or even years if Democrats did not relent on their steadfast refusal to grant him the wall money.The negotiations on Saturday focused on priorities for security rather than a dollar figure for the border wall, the vice presidents office said. While Mr. Trump has stood by his $5.7 billion demand, Senate Democrats have offered $1.3 billion for border security, including fencing, while Speaker Nancy Pelosi and the top Senate Democrat, Chuck Schumer of New York, have repeatedly said that they will not agree to any wall funding. Ms. Pelosi has called a border wall an immorality.The vice presidents office said that Mr. Pence had reiterated the presidents position that any deal needed to include funding for the wall. The office also said that Democrats had requested additional information from the Department of Homeland Security about its needs to deal with border issues.Democratic staff members asked for a formal budget justification for the administrations insistence on its $5.7 billion proposal, a Democratic official familiar with the discussion said, adding that Mr. Pence made clear that the White House would not budge from that figure. The Democrats told the vice president that there would be no movement on the dollar figure until after the government is reopened.It is unclear just what kind of authority Mr. Trump has granted Mr. Pence to speak for him in negotiations. Last month, when Mr. Pence made a $2.6 billion counteroffer to Democrats in an effort to avert the shutdown, Mr. Trump quickly shot down the proposal.During the talks on Saturday, Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, offered a briefing on what the administration has deemed a crisis at the border. Ms. Nielsen had tried to give a similar briefing earlier in the week to congressional leaders and White House officials gathered in the Situation Room, but she was cut off by Ms. Pelosi, who questioned Ms. Nielsens facts.In addition to Ms. Nielsen, the vice president was joined on Saturday by Mick Mulvaney, the acting chief of staff, and Jared Kushner, a senior adviser to Mr. Trump. Mr. Kushner is said to have raised the prospect with Democratic lawmakers that if they give the president the full $5.7 billion in wall funding or something close to it, they might in exchange get an agreement for new protections for the young immigrants known as Dreamers. The prospect of such a deal has alarmed some conservatives.For his part, the president seemed to be goading Democrats with a morning tweet that implied that he was ready to talk with them at the White House, even though it was Mr. Trump who had announced on Friday that the meeting would be at the staff level.The president also repeated his claim that the bulk of federal workers who are going without pay are Democrats  a claim rebuffed by federal union leaders  but said their political affiliation was not relevant to him. On Friday, he had said that most federal workers supported his demand for a border wall and were willing to sacrifice their paychecks to achieve it.As the shutdown reached its 14th day, the finances of government agencies continued to show signs of strain. On Saturday, Scott Gottlieb, the commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, said the agency had about one months funding left for some of its activities.There have also been a few new signs of fraying political fealty to the president among Republicans. On Friday, Senator Thom Tillis, Republican of North Carolina, became the third member of his party in the Senate to call for an end to the shutdown, joining Senator Cory Gardner of Colorado and Senator Susan Collins of Maine. All three are expected to face difficult re-election battles in 2020.In an op-ed article for the newspaper The Hill published Friday evening, Mr. Tillis encouraged Congress to strike a deal that would provide long-term certainty to the DACA population  the Dreamers brought to the United States as children  and force out the extreme elements on either side of the aisle.When it comes to securing our borders, its important to note that the real solution is not going to be a big, literal physical wall, but rather an all-the-above, all-hands-on-deck approach, he wrote, adding his support for solutions including physical barriers and steel fences.The op-ed came just a day after the campaign arm of the Senate Democrats released statements to local news media targeting Republican senators up for re-election.In a move to keep pressure on the president and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, Ms. Pelosi announced Saturday afternoon that House Democrats would begin passing individual appropriations bills next week to reopen all government agencies, beginning with legislation that would reopen the Internal Revenue Service.This action is necessary so that the American people can receive their tax refunds on schedule, Ms. Pelosi said in a statement. The certainty of the tax returns of hard-working families should no longer be held hostage to the president.Mr. McConnell has largely stayed on the sidelines in the shutdown fight, saying that any solution must be reached between Mr. Trump and Democrats. In an opinion column on Friday, The Courier-Journal of Louisville, the largest newspaper in Mr. McConnells home state, called on him to get into the game and end a crisis that really doesnt need to be happening.Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byMake no mistake: The group will be back unless the conditions that gave birth to it are addressed. By Fawaz GergesMr. Gerges is the author of ISIS: A History, among other books.The Islamic States territorial rule has ended. On Saturday, the Syrian Democratic Forces, a United States-backed group, announced that the final sliver of territory under the jihadist groups control had fallen. Even before this news, President Trump has rushed to declare mission accomplished in Syria. Yet as the United States has learned before, rhetoric cannot block out reality. And the reality is that it is premature, reckless even, to pen the Islamic States obituary.Although the group has been dealt a hard blow, ideologically and operationally the organization is degraded, not defeated, and its extremist network still functions. This is not to say that the Islamic State is invincible, but so long as the causes that gave rise to the extremist group are permitted to persist  the broken politics in the Arab and Islamic world, the fraying and delegitimization of state institutions, as well as ongoing geostrategic rivalries and foreign interventions  there will be opportunities for the Islamic State and like-minded groups to rebound.This is not hyperbole. A key insight from the movements recent history should be how it has proved resilient, adaptive and resourceful, tapping into the deep sense of outrage and injustice felt by Sunni Muslims in Iraq, Syria and beyond.The first factor that engenders the Islamic State is the organic crisis of governance, and ungovernable spaces, that plagues Syria, Iraq, Libya, Yemen, Egypts Sinai Peninsula, West Africa and Afghanistan. Areas where state and local authorities hold little to no sway, and provide little to no support, are fertile breeding grounds for extremist organizations.The second factor is the fierce Cold War between Sunni-dominated Saudi Arabia and Shiite-majority Iran. Although the Saudi-Iran clash is driven by geostrategic calculations, it has taken on local sectarian overtones that play out daily on streets in Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, Yemen and elsewhere. The Islamic State has capitalized on this rivalry by portraying itself as the defender and protector of persecuted Sunnis.Overlaying the geostrategic clash between Saudi Arabia and Iran are the machinations of other regional and foreign powers that are using local radical groups to achieve their self-interested political ends. For example, Syria, Iraq, Yemen and Libya are areas where other international powers (like Turkey, Russia and the United States) are battling for influence and control  a situation that the Islamic State and Al Qaeda exploit to their advantage.The third factor is the distribution of the Islamic States combatants and the persistent threat they pose. As far back as 2016, when the Islamic State began to lose control of major urban centers, its leaders began planning for this day. Thousands of fighters have reportedly dispersed with fleeing civilians in Iraq and Syria and gone into hiding. Cells have already carried out hundreds of devastating attacks in both countries.The movement also spread its tentacles near and wide, dispatching hundreds of veteran operatives to new fronts in Turkey, Egypt, Libya, Yemen, West Africa, Afghanistan and beyond. Not unlike Al Qaeda  though now on a greater and more lethal scale  the Islamic State is a transnational network with bases and sleeping cells in more than a dozen countries.Thus, notwithstanding the catastrophic military blows the group has suffered and the loss of its territorial rule, the Islamic State has made it unmistakably clear that it will carry on the fight even if the caliphate is militarily incapacitated. In early March, Islamic State fighters released a video from the Syrian town of Baghuz that urged the groups followers to maintain their faith in the caliphate, even as Kurdish forces advanced toward the last of its territory.Unfortunately, it appears that the Islamic State has both the will and limited assets necessary to survive to fight another day.Indeed, before he was killed by an American airstrike in Syria in 2016, Abu Mohammed al-Adnani, the Islamic States second most powerful leader, after Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, prepared followers for the future battles. He said, referring to the groups progenitor, Al Qaeda in Iraq: Do you, O America consider defeat to be the loss of a city or the loss of land? Were we defeated when we lost the cities in Iraq and were in the desert without any city or land?Like Al Qaeda in Iraq, which was declared defeated from 2006 until 2010, the Islamic State is returning to its insurgent roots. And less than a year after its expulsion from major urban centers, the organization now wages a low-intensity guerrilla campaign that has already killed hundreds of Iraqis, including key security personnel and tribal leaders. Designed to terrorize local communities, sow instability and expose the impotency of Iraqs security forces, the Islamic States strategy is paying dividends.The corrupt and dysfunctional Baghdad government has neglected the emaciated Sunni-inhabited cities (such as Mosul) that were liberated from the Islamic States rule. Once again, the extremist organization is appealing to disgruntled Sunnis who feel forsaken by the Shiite-dominated authorities. The recent intensification of the United States rivalry with Iran in Iraq under President Trump has served to only further weaken the central government in Baghdad and embolden the Islamic State.Similarly, in Syria, sleeper cells frequently attack the liberated Raqqa and Deir Ezzor province and inflict heavy casualties on the Syrian Democratic Forces, an American-backed coalition of Kurdish and Arab fighters. Like in Iraq, the Islamic State bides its time in Syria, hoping that Turkeys fixation with the Kurds and Mr. Trumps decision to ultimately withdraw most American troops from the northeast will create a security void that it can fill.Before Mr. Trump takes a victory lap, he should know that the next phase of the struggle against the Islamic State and Al Qaeda will be complex, costly and prolonged. A counterterrorism strategy is not sufficient. Permanently defeating these jihadist groups will require an economic, political and ideological strategy with a long-term focus.The challenge that Arab and Islamic societies face is to develop a counternarrative to the ideology of jihadism. This will require transparent, inclusive and representative government that delivers jobs and hope, and gives millions of young men and women who feel excluded and unserved a stake in the future of their countries.Specifically, instead of wantonly fueling geostrategic rivalries and inflaming Arab-Israeli tensions, the United States, together with other great powers, must help war-torn Muslim societies reconcile, heal and rebuild. Unless the United States does so, the Islamic State will remain a threat in the years to come.It seems unlikely that Mr. Trump has either the desire or vision to pursue such a farsighted strategy. But if he wants to celebrate a true victory over the Islamic State he should consider the long-term consequences of his actions.Fawaz A. Gerges, a professor of international relations at the London School of Economics, is author, most recently, of Making the Arab World. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byIt takes a lot of spine to be a centrist in America today.By Frank BruniOpinion ColumnistPROVIDENCE, R.I.  I did it. I found a significantly accomplished, defensibly qualified Democratic officeholder who isnt flirting with  and hasnt fantasized about  a presidential run in 2020. I had to take the train to Rhode Island, where we talked over pizza and eggplant parmigiana. We drank wine, too. It helps these days.Her name is Gina Raimondo. Shes the governor of this state. She just began her second term after being re-elected by a margin of more than 15 percentage points, and you would think that this commanding victory plus her youth (shes 47), her working-class background, her educational pedigree (Harvard, Rhodes scholar, Yale Law), her role as the chairwoman of the Democratic Governors Association and her situation far from the nations swampy and unpopular capital would start chatter about a move there. But no. Crickets.The most obvious reason? Her relationship to the Democratic Party of the moment. Both stylistically and substantively, shes out of sync with it.[Go beyond the headlines and behind the curtain with Frank Brunis candid reflections on politics, culture, higher education and more every week. Sign up for his newsletter.]She cant tweet worth a damn and the same goes for Instagram. She winces at talk of a top marginal tax rate of 70 percent and cringes at the growing use of corporatist as a slur against Democratic politicians deemed too cozy with business interests. She thinks that big companies often need to be prodded forcefully to do right by their employees, but that its bad policy and bad politics to paint them as the enemy.She recalled an exchange with college students not long ago. One of them said: I get who you are. Youre one of those spineless centrists. And I was like, Excuse me?, she said. It takes a lot of spine to be a centrist in America today. You get whacked from the left and whacked from the right. Thats my life. I get whacked.Moderate Democrats have certainly had their day and their sway. In fact the passions of the left arise in part from how much compromise there has been  and here we are stuck with Donald Trump. The rage of less moderate Democrats like Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is earned and righteous. And Raimondo said precisely that to me.But Ocasio-Cortez is by no means the whole of the Democratic Party. And is the leftward lurch that she personifies the best and safest bet for 2020? I worry, because theres no political priority higher than limiting Trump to one term. Raimondo also worries  a lot.So many Democrats just assume were going to win, she said. They underestimate how hard its going to be. And it might be a serious tactical mistake, she added, to nominate any candidate who seems to be at war with capitalism itself or entertains the idea of a guaranteed minimum income.We have become the party that is anti-business, she told me. We need to be the party of work.She acknowledged that the system we have today is totally broken. She cited grotesque income inequality. She noted that too many Americans have no economic security and no prospects for achieving it.But I fall in the camp of: Lets fix it, she said. Lets embrace business to come to the table. Someone needs to make the case that its in the best interest of businesses and wealthy people to be better corporate citizens. Pay for health care. Help people get their college degree. Pay for job training.Along those lines, she recently proposed that companies doing business in Rhode Island be taxed up to $1,500 annually for every employee who is enrolled in Medicaid because he or she cant get health insurance through a company-sponsored plan. I hope that theyre embarrassed, she said.But, she added, Where I think we are at risk is if all we do is beat up and crap on businesses.Thats an exaggeration of where the party is, but I take her point. And Im fascinated by her unflashy example and the questions it raises about how we currently accord importance to politicians and how much that really relates to their impact.Journalists obsess over the most camera-ready emissaries and provocative assertions, and we often outsource our judgment to social media. To go viral is to be relevant. In the future, the Politico media columnist Jack Shafer wrote a few days ago, your news source of choice will contain only stories about Donald Trump and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. Shafer forgot Beto ORourke, which is funny, because he once wrote an excellent broadside about how political reporters cant forget him.When I checked social media during Raimondos re-election campaign, I mostly saw people bashing her, and she wasnt bothering to engage with that hate. I assumed she was in trouble.But she won her primary against a progressive rival by more than 20 points, then trounced her Republican opponent in the general election, 52.8 percent to 37.3 percent. (Third-party candidates received the remainder of the vote.) She had ample support in the end. It just didnt show up on Twitter, where an overwhelming majority of Americans still spend no time at all.And that support undoubtedly reflects the concrete difference that Raimondo has made over the past four years. With aggressive tax incentives, she persuaded some two dozen companies to expand or establish operations in Rhode Island, creating what The Timess Katharine Seelye described as a frenzy of economic and job development. For most of the year before she took office, the states unemployment rate was well above the nations; at the end of last month, it was the same  3.9 percent.Thanks to her advocacy, Rhode Island is among a minority of states in which community college is free. And thanks to a tax that she levied on large commercial trucks, its awful infrastructure is receiving desperately needed repairs and upgrades.K-through-12 public education, however, remains a mess. And Raimondo has stains on her record, including the botched rollout of a $650 million public-assistance computer system that wasnt ready, wreaking epic havoc. To get re-elected, she raised  and spent  significantly more money than her opponents. And many Democrats fairly question whether her corporate giveaways had to be as generous as they were.But some of them obviously backed her anyway. At the end of the day, Raimondo said, people want a decent job, and I think they thought that I was the candidate who was going to bring that to them and their families.And thats a political reality  and a glimpse into the electorate  that shouldnt be forgotten as Democrats plot their course. The media attention to full-throttle progressives among newly elected House Democrats is disproportionate to their numbers, and it sometimes obscures a sizable, practical middle. Besides, their more moderate peers are the ones who wrested seats from Republicans in districts that, like America, arent deep red or emphatically blue.I dont think the lefties can win a general election, Raimondo said. But, she conceded, Who knows? Im not running in 2020.  I could have missed the boat.I invite you to sign up for my free weekly email newsletter. You can follow me on Twitter (@FrankBruni). Frank Bruni has been with The Times since 1995 and held a variety of jobs  including White House reporter, Rome bureau chief and chief restaurant critic  before becoming a columnist in 2011. He is the author of three best-selling books.  @FrankBruni  Facebook Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Sarah MervoshThe authorities in Charlottesville, Va., arrested a 17-year-old boy on Friday in connection with an online threat targeting black and Hispanic students, bringing a sense of relief to a saga that had forced the closing of the citys public schools for two straight days.The teenager, who was not identified, is believed to have published a post on the web forum 4chan that threatened an ethnic cleansing at Charlottesville High School, the authorities said.The post set off a rapid investigation and prompted the Charlottesville public school district, which serves about 4,300 students from kindergarten to high school, to shut down all of its campuses on Thursday and Friday.By midday Friday, the Charlottesville Police Department had announced that a suspect was in custody and had been charged with threatening to commit serious bodily harm on a school property, as well as harassment.The teenager, who lives in the area, is not a student at Charlottesville High School, Chief RaShall M. Brackney of the Charlottesville Police Department said at a news conference Friday afternoon.Chief Brackney condemned the vile, racially charged threat against students in Charlottesville, which is still dealing with the aftermath of a deadly white supremacist rally nearly two years ago. The tensions that broke out in August 2017 thrust the city, often considered a bastion of Southern progressivism, into a national conversation about Confederate statues, deep-seated racism and economic disparities.We want the community and the world to know that hate is not welcomed in Charlottesville, violence is not welcomed in Charlottesville, intolerance is not welcomed in Charlottesville, Chief Brackney said on Friday.Referencing language President Trump used when he blamed both sides for violence at the rally, the police chief added: In Charlottesville and around the globe, we stand firmly in stating: there are not very fine people on both sides of this issue.Since hordes of people with guns, swastikas and Confederate flags descended on the city, in a rally that featured beatings, brawls and a car that plowed into a crowd of anti-racist counterprotesters, killing one of them, the people of Charlottesville have seen a drastic overhaul of the citys leadership and engaged in conversations about what kind of city Charlottesville is going to be.The city is grappling with deep-seated inequity, including in its school system. Charlottesville City Schools, where students are about 40 percent white, 30 percent black and 12 percent Hispanic, has one of the widest educational disparity gaps in the United States.Christine Esposito, an elementary school teacher in the district, said in an interview Friday that the online threat and the upheaval that followed had exacerbated wounds that are already present and we are already trying to deal with.She added, The person who made the threat clearly understood what is going on in Charlottesville and what it feels like to live in Charlottesville.Images posted on social media appeared to show a copy of the post on 4chan, an anonymous web forum where offensive views proliferate. A user who claimed to be affiliated with Charlottesville High School promised an ethnic cleansing in my school and, using slurs, threatened to kill African-American and Hispanic people.The authorities first learned about the threat Wednesday afternoon and worked to determine its credibility before making an arrest around 6 a.m. Friday.When asked about the race of the suspect, the chief did not answer directly, saying only that the teenager identifies as Portuguese. The authorities have declined to name him because he is a minor.While white supremacist hatred long predates sites like 4chan or Reddit, online platforms can create and reinforce extremist beliefs. And extremist behavior online has preceded real-life violence in recent instances.The suspect in a mass shooting that killed 50 people at mosques in New Zealand last week seemed to have planned the attack as an online performance. He teased his act on Twitter, announced it on the online message board 8chan and appeared to have posted a 74-page manifesto online before streaming the massacre on Facebook.And last year, hours before a gunman barged into a Pittsburgh synagogue and killed 11 people, the authorities say he posted a signoff on Gab, a social network that bills itself as a free speech alternative to Facebook and Twitter, and that has become a haven for white supremacists, neo-Nazis and other extremists.In another instance, the suspect accused of sending explosive devices to prominent Democrats last year appeared to have been radicalized online.Even though this threat has been resolved, the fear and anxiety that it provoked is real, Rosa Atkins, the superintendent of Charlottesville City Schools, said at the news conference on Friday.She said the district planned to reopen schools by Monday morning.In an email to families, Dr. Atkins urged strength and solidarity in the face of hate.We will NOT let this divide us, either as a school or as a city or even as a region, she wrote.Officials said the district had worked with community groups over the past two days to send pizza and fruit to low-income students who typically got free meals at school.Ms. Esposito said she spent part of her day Friday visiting students in their neighborhoods, taking them snacks and navigating complex conversations about what had happened.Trying to figure out how to explain to an 8-year-old why they are at home on a Friday, she said, is really hard.In the aftermath of the white supremacist rally, she said, her fourth-grade students worked on a yearlong project examining the history of Charlottesville, as a way of processing what happened.And now this.At this point, its almost cumulative, Ms. Esposito said. You think youre over the worst part and then something else happens. And you realize youre not over the worst part  and maybe youll never be.Follow Sarah Mervosh on Twitter: @smervosh. Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byWhy no vote on the House-passed ethics and election reform bill, Mr. Senate Leader? Because I get to decide what we vote on.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.With the conspicuous perversion of the political system on daily display, congressional Democrats are eager to brand themselves the party of reform. They took another step in this direction on Friday, when the House voted 234-to-193  along straight party lines  to pass the For the People Act, a sweeping package of proposals aimed at rooting out political corruption and shoring up the integrity of the electoral system.The bill is the Democrats chief policy priority and covers close to 700 pages. H.R. 1, as it is officially known, seeks, among other reforms, to strengthen ethics laws for lawmakers and lobbyists, increase voting access, improve voting security, tighten campaign finance laws and create an alternative campaign-finance system geared toward small donors.To advance the bill, Democratic leaders had to work through more than 70 proposed amendments. Some were embraced, including several aimed at spotlighting questionable behavior in the Trump administration. One, for instance, bars federal money from being spent at businesses owned or controlled by the president or other top administration officials. Others were rejected, including a plan to lower the voting age to 16.As a sign of Democrats commitment to a cause that helped power its takeover of the House, the bills passage was an important achievement. As a practical legislative matter, its a bit of a hollow victory. As fired up as Democrats are to shake up the system, Republicans are perhaps even more fired up to stop them.The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, has been openly hostile to the anticorruption package since its inception. This week he made clear that he would refuse even to bring it up for a vote.Think of H.R. 1 as the Merrick Garland of reform legislation.Mr. McConnell called the bill the Democrat Politician Protection Act (and a turkey) and predicted that lawmakers who back it will suffer come re-election time. As political logic, this is questionable. If the Republican leader really thought the package was a loser, he would absolutely bring it to the floor to force Democratic lawmakers to own it  which is, notably, the path he has pledged to pursue with the Green New Deal, which is supported by many Democrats. The Green New Deal, an assortment of ideas for fighting climate change and remaking the economy, is even more sprawling and amorphous than the For the People Act. Mr. McConnell is panting to have members vote on it.Asked this week why the two measures were being handled so differently, the Republican leader didnt bother making up excuses. He said simply, Because I get to decide what we vote on.This grade-school taunt masks a deep current of fear and loathing. Loathing, because Mr. McConnell is a longtime enemy of campaign finance reform. Killing such efforts can seem like his singular legislative passion.The fear is less targeted, but even more existential. Ever the shrewd political animal, Mr. McConnell is well aware that a majority of Americans favor overhauling a system they see as broken and unfair. In a Wall Street Journal/NBC News poll from September, 77 percent of respondents said reducing corruption and the influence of special interests was either the most important or a very important issue facing the nation. Having his members blamed for derailing a major reform package could prove politically risky. Thus Mr. McConnell turns to his go-to move: stonewalling.At the same time, he and prominent House Republicans have been loudly assailing H.R. 1, cranking the fear-mongering demagogy to the max. Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy went so far as to star in an overwrought attack video. Mr. McCarthy asserts that the provision restoring voting rights to felons is not only dangerous, its unconstitutional; he goes on to say that under the optional matching-fund system, in which political donations up to $200 would be matched 6-to-1 with public funds, the Democrats would send your tax dollars to pay for campaigns; and he warns that the bill would facilitate voter fraud by providing for automatic voter registration, which would make it more difficult to strike ineligible voters from the rolls. So future voters might be underage, dead or illegal immigrants, or maybe even registered one, two or three times!No, no and no. There is nothing unconstitutional or inherently dangerous about re-enfranchising former prisoners. The new matching-funds system would be financed through fines levied on companies caught violating federal law. And the Brennan Center for Justice has found that automatic voter registration, already working swimmingly in several states, increases registration rates and improves the accuracy of voting rolls.H.R. 1 would put an end to at least some of the vile voter suppression practices that Republicans have embraced in recent years. Which goes to the heart of the partys opposition.Well before President Trump erupted on the scene, Republicans made the calculation that, with demographics trending against them, their best strategy was to make voting harder rather than easier, particularly for certain nonwhite segments of the electorate. Across the nation, they have pursued voter restriction tactics with vigor. Any effort to expand access to the ballot box sets off alarm bells within the party.This leaves Republicans in the peculiar position of arguing that weeding out corruption, reducing the influence of special interests and protecting voting rights are inherently Democratic values. The For the People Act is far from perfect. For Democrats, it is arguably a grand values statement more than a practical legislative blueprint. Not even its most fervent supporters expect it to go anywhere without considerable adjustment. But McConnell and Co. arent interested in debating or improving the package. They want it dead.There should be nothing partisan about a push to make the American political system more accessible and accountable to the American people. The public is increasingly hungry for reform, thanks in part to the continuing outrages of President Trump. Mr. McConnell may turn out to be right that the issue will cause lawmakers pain in the coming elections  just not in the way he expects.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe old rules are being rejected, among liberals and conservatives, politicians and economists.By Neil Irwin Here are three things that have happened so far in 2019.The former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, Olivier Blanchard, argued in a speech that for countries like the United States, high public debt isnt necessarily a problem. To people who follow the I.M.F., it was as if a former pope came out with an endorsement of the devil.Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the charismatic new congresswoman who has shown an uncanny ability to drive public policy debates, indicated openness to modern monetary theory, the idea that public spending need not be constrained by tax revenues.President Trump delivered an 82-minute-long State of the Union speech in which he did not use the words debt or budget deficit. Economic orthodoxy that ruled for decades held that fiscal responsibility was inherently good and the national debt a leviathan to fear. Now the intellectual and political currents are flowing  gushing, really  in the opposite direction.After President Trumps election, Republicans decided to pursue their agenda of tax cuts and higher military spending without doing the unpopular work of paying for it.Democrats are coming to believe they have hamstrung themselves in pursuit of their goals by worrying about so-called pay-fors, policies that offset the cost. When they next take power, they may feel empowered to take on a much more ambitious, expensive agenda.And macroeconomists are confronting the reality that the sky did not fall, even as the United States swung from a $236 billion surplus in the 2000 fiscal year to a $779 billion deficit in 2018. By their old theories, high deficits and debt should have caused interest rates and inflation to rise, and government borrowing should have crowded out capital from the private sector.At a minimum, the old rules simply seem not to apply in a world that has free-flowing capital; an aging population; and stubbornly low inflation and interest rates. Or, more controversially, maybe those rules were never really an accurate description of how economics works in a country like the United States that can borrow in its own currency.How did everyone  liberals and conservatives, politicians and economists  get so comfortable with debt?The start of the 21st century was a triumphalist moment for the United States economy. The unemployment rate was at its lowest in decades, workers wages were rising, inflation was well contained and the stock market had reached staggering highs.The bipartisan conventional wisdom was that fiscal conservatism was a meaningful part of why: In the early 1990s, tax increases signed by George H.W. Bush and Bill Clinton, combined with spending restraint, lowered projected deficits. That, in turn, generated lower interest rates. Global bond markets and the Federal Reserve rewarded fiscal restraint.Lower interest rates, in this telling, fueled an investment boom generating higher productivity  and all the good things about the turn-of-the-century economy. To those in charge, this story of cause-and-effect seemed almost self-evident. But even then, there were reasons to question it.For one thing, the cause-and-effect might have been backward. Maybe the economic boom caused the surpluses, not the other way around. And continuing fiscal surpluses meant a falling supply of Treasury bonds, the bedrock of the global financial system. Could that have been destabilizing? Some economists thought so, for example, Stephanie Kelton, who as a young scholar studied under the groundbreaking Cambridge economist Wynne Godley. In their thinking, the American combination of government budget surpluses and current account deficits  meaning importing more than exporting  would cause private debt to rise. And private debt, they said, is more dangerous than the public kind; private borrowers cannot create money from thin air. In 2001, the boom turned to recession. The Bush administration sought lower income tax rates, especially for investment income, and passed them in 2001 and 2003. In 2003, Congress and the administration created an expensive new Medicare prescription drug benefit. The country faced the new costs of wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. The surpluses vanished. Interest rates and inflation remained low throughout the Bush years even as deficits soared, and rather than being crowded out by government borrowing, capital was freely available to private borrowers  so much so that it fueled a housing bubble.Then came the global financial crisis.The steep contraction in the economy in 2008 and the first half of 2009 caused tax revenues to plummet and social safety net spending to soar. The Obama administration advanced a deficit-financed $787 billion package of spending and tax cuts to contain the economic damage.But strikingly, even amid soaring deficits, President Obama embraced the language of the old Clinton-era consensus. It has never been more important to ensure that as our economy recovers, we do what it takes to bring this deficit down, he said in his first address to Congress in early 2009.When Republicans won control of the House of Representatives in 2010, in part by assailing the enormous Obama deficits, there was a bipartisan view that the United States was at risk of a fiscal crisis. The concern was that high debt would cause international investors to lose confidence in Treasury bonds and dump them, sending interest rates soaring and cratering the economy. The deficit did come down in the late Obama years, in part after Republicans insisted on budget cuts in so-called sequestration policies and the Obama administration insisted on allowing some of the Bush tax cuts to expire, raising taxes.When President Trump took office, Republicans in Congress initially discussed lowering corporate tax rates while keeping the governments revenue stable with a destination-based cash flow tax.But the problem with a deficit-neutral tax change is that the losers, especially retailers in this case, tend to be more vocal than the winners. Congressional Republicans agreed on the deficit-widening parts of tax reform, cutting the corporate income tax rate to 21 percent from 35 percent, reducing taxes on many pass-through businesses, and more. They couldnt agree on offsetting moves to raise revenue.In October 2017, the Senate passed rules allowing a tax bill that raised the deficit by $1.5 trillion over 10 years. And just weeks after passing tax cuts, large bipartisan majorities in Congress voted on spending bills that increased federal outlays by about 13 percent.It just didnt seem like there was any way to get to deficit neutral or revenue neutral, said former Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee, who ultimately voted for the tax cuts after voicing deficit concerns along the way. Do I wish it was revenue neutral? Yes. Do I wish we had not turned around and voted for $2 trillion in spending that was unpaid for? Absolutely.Mr. Corker says tax cuts are fulfilling their goal of making American businesses more competitive, though he said he still worried about Congresss retreat from fiscal probity.I was there for 12 years, and I think for eight or nine years of that time I felt Congress would deal with fiscal issues  I see no hope of that currently, he said.Yet again, though, there has been scant evidence that this is doing the kind of damage to the economy that the old models predicted. The United States government can borrow money for 30 years for a smidgen over 3 percent. It was 6.5 percent back when surpluses reigned.Larry Summers was the last Treasury secretary to oversee a full year of fiscal surplus, in the final days of the Clinton administration. Last month, he and the economist Jason Furman published an article titled Whos Afraid of Budget Deficits: How Washington Should End Its Debt Obsession.Focusing on limiting public debt, they argued, had hamstrung the nations ability to invest in things with long-term benefits, namely education, health care and infrastructure. The basic idea that if you issue too much debt you will crowd out large amounts of valuable private capital investment was a reasonable view in the early to mid-1990s, Mr. Summers, a Harvard economist, said in an interview. With very low interest rates worldwide, it isnt today, he said.Mr. Summers and other non-alarmist economists are not suggesting that debt never matters.They say that in this environment  with low interest rates to the horizon, no evident inflation pressures, and with worthwhile policies that could enhance the nations long-term outlook  its foolish not to borrow money.Mr. Blanchard, the former I.M.F. chief economist, emphasizes that interest rates are comfortably below the rate at which the economy is growing. That means that, despite high debt levels in the United States, it shouldnt matter if the nation keeps borrowing money because its capacity to pay is growing faster than interest costs.Some take the argument even further. Ms. Kelton, who went from her early research on debt to advise Senator Bernie Sanders and other politicians on the left, argues that a currency-issuing government neednt worry that deficits will lead to a fiscal crisis. Rather, inflation becomes a risk if spending outpaces the finite supply of workers and productive capacity.The political implication of modern monetary theory is that you should lay out what you believe is an important priority for the country, and if you have the votes, enact it. Ms. Kelton said Presidents Trump and George W. Bush behaved as if they were M.M.T. adherents, and as a result had greater flexibility to enact their agenda than a more fiscally conservative president would.Even the members of Congress on the left arent ready to disregard fiscal constraints entirely. But they are focusing on the upside of their policies. When Senator Elizabeth Warren was asked if she believed in the modern monetary theory approach, she told Bloomberg Television: Its only when we talk about the things that go to hard-working Americans that Republicans seem to get religion about the national debt. Debt matters. There comes a point where debt matters. But what I care about is that we need to rethink our system in a way that is genuinely about investments that pay off over time.Moreover, Ms. Warren has proposed a wealth tax on assets over $50 million. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez has supported a 70 percent tax rate on income over $10 million. Moves like those would reduce the deficit impact of their spending proposals. But both speak of those strategies as desirable on their own terms, for fairness, rather than as necessary sacrifices to pay for aggressive climate change action or cheaper college access.Its as if Democrats and Republicans were divorced parents who share custody  and elected Democrats feel that the Republicans are the parent constantly giving the children pizza and sweets, while the Democrats worry about healthy eating.Theres a sense of Why do we always have to be the fiscal grown-ups?  said Jared Bernstein, who worked in the Obama administration and is now a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. It puts your party at a disadvantage if were the ones saying you have to eat your spinach all the time.Republicans may cut taxes with abandon, and Democrats seem increasingly ready to undertake their agenda with similar disregard to fiscal consequences. But there remains a politically homeless group: people who see profound risks in the bipartisan willingness to embrace deficit spending.In 2011, Erskine Bowles, who was co-chairman of a committee aimed at long-term deficit reduction, predicted that a fiscal crisis could arrive in two years. That didnt happen. But Mr. Bowles believes that in the generation to come, there will be regrets over the current era of large deficits even in a time of economic strength: Im confident many Americans will wonder why didnt those old guys make some of these tough decisions 20 to 30 years ago.Neil Irwin is a senior economics correspondent for The Upshot. He previously wrote for The Washington Post and is the author of The Alchemists: Three Central Bankers and a World on Fire.  @Neil_Irwin  Facebook Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Miriam Jordan and Caitlin DickersonOAKLAND, Calif.  Nearly nine months after the Trump administration officially rescinded its policy of separating migrant families who have illegally crossed the border, more than 200 migrant children have been taken from parents and other relatives and placed in institutional care, with some spending months in shelters and foster homes thousands of miles away from their parents.The latest data reported to the federal judge monitoring one of the most controversial of President Trumps immigration policies shows that 245 children have been removed from their families since the court ordered the government to halt routine separations under last springs zero tolerance border enforcement policy. Some of the new separations are being undertaken with no clear documentation to help track the childrens whereabouts.Images of crying mothers and children at the border last year prompted an intense backlash across party lines, with all four living former first ladies and Melania Trump expressing horror at the policy. But despite President Trumps June 20 executive order rescinding it, the practice was never completely suspended.Under the original policy, most children were removed because parents who illegally crossed the border were subject to criminal prosecution. The recent separations have occurred largely because parents have been flagged for fraud, a communicable disease or past criminal history  in some cases relatively minor violations, years in the past, that ordinarily would not lead to the loss of parental custody.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]The new separations are taking place amid an unprecedented influx of migrant families from across the southern border that has highlighted the failure of the Trump administrations hard-line policies to deter them. The Border Patrol detained 76,103 migrants in February, an 11-year high for that month. Among those intercepted were about 40,000 members of families, two-thirds more than in January.In Congress last week, Democrats grilled Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security secretary, over the separation policy, citing research that has found that separations from parents can inflict long-term psychological harm on children.Family separations also sometimes occurred under the Obama administration, but only rarely and in extreme cases in which a childs safety appeared to be at risk.Customs and Border Protection officials say the separations are legal under the parameters set by the court and are intended to protect children, who they say may be threatened by human trafficking or by adults pretending to be a parent to capitalize on the advantage that gives them under American immigration laws.C.B.P. does not declare that a parent poses danger to a child arbitrarily or without merit, the agency said in a statement. It said agents will maintain family unity to the greatest extent operationally feasible, separating children only in the presence of a legal requirement set out in written policy or an articulable safety or security concern that requires separation.But opposition to the new separations has been growing from both outside and inside the federal government. At the Health and Human Services Departments Office of Refugee Resettlement, which oversees the care of separated children until they can be reunited with their families, some officials have tried to resist receiving children referred to the agency by the Border Patrol.According to an official who was not authorized to discuss government business and spoke on the condition of anonymity, staff members have in some cases raised questions with Border Patrol agents about separations with what appear to be little or no justification. In some of those cases, border agents have refused to provide additional information, the official said, or if additional documents were provided, they were sometimes redacted to the point of illegibility.The official, along with another staff member at the Department of Homeland Security, the Border Patrols parent agency, said that some separations were occurring with no formal notification to the refugee resettlement office. Both officials said they had been made aware of concerns about an apparent inconsistency in standards applied by border agents when determining whether a family should be separated.The failure to keep accurate records suggests that more children could have been separated than the 245 accounted for by Feb. 20 in official records.The New York Times reviewed several cases of children who have been separated since the policy was officially ended, and learned of many others through the lawyers who handled them. Some of the new separations, the review showed, occurred in families with a parent who had a drunken-driving conviction in the past, or a 20-year-old nonviolent robbery conviction. In one case, a parent had been convicted of possession of a small amount of marijuana.Donna Abbott, vice president for refugee and immigrant services at Bethany Christian Services, a contractor that accommodates migrant children in temporary foster homes until they can be reunited with family members, said most cases of family separations do not list detailed reasons, making it difficult to evaluate whether they were appropriate.For example, some files state only that the parent was suspected of having gang affiliations or a criminal history, without additional information. Is it trespassing or is it murder? Ms. Abbott said.In December, a mother traveling from El Salvador with her three children was arrested and put on a bus to an immigration detention facility in Arizona while her children, ages 5, 8 and 15, were sent to foster care in New York.The woman, Deisy Ramirez, 38, said it was nearly six weeks before she talked to her children.They were devastated, said Ms. Ramirezs sister, Silvia Ramirez, who was trying to persuade the government to allow her to take the children to live with her in Seattle while her sister was in custody. They couldnt understand why they were separated, she said.On March 1, Ms. Ramirezs eldest daughter was transferred to a hospital after threatening to take her own life, Silvia Ramirez said, and she remained there even after her mothers release from detention last week.I never imagined this could happen, Deisy Ramirez said on Friday, her voice breaking. All I want is to hold my children and to be with them.Her lawyer, Ricardo de Anda, said he had received no response to his formal request for a reason for the separation. He suspects it may be connected to the fact that Ms. Ramirez had been deported from the United States more than a decade ago. He sent government lawyers a series of emails, ultimately securing her release.On Saturday, the day after her release from the Arizona detention facility, Ms. Ramirez was preparing to fly to New York to reunite with her children.Border agents removed 3-year-old Ashley Ramos from her father after they were detained last month in Arizona. He was swiftly deported to Guatemala and the girl was sent to a shelter.The childs mother, Silvia Maribel Ramos, who had been separated from the pair during their journey from Guatemala when Mexican police pulled her and other migrants off their bus for questioning, arrived in Arizona a few days later, only to learn from authorities that her child was gone.They told me they had no idea where she was, that I would find out after being released, said Ms. Ramos, who is staying with relatives in Oakland, Calif.The child was located nearly two weeks later, she said, after her husband contacted Guatemalan authorities back home. Now Ms. Ramos is struggling with the paperwork required to recover Ashley. My daughter cant understand. She just weeps and begs to be with us, she said.In late January, Victor Antonio Marin was separated from his 4-year-old son, whose mother is deceased, after they were detained near Calexico, Calif. According to his lawyer, Bob Boyce, Mr. Marin had a 20-year-old nonviolent robbery conviction in the United States that did not involve the use of a weapon. He served time and was deported back to El Salvador.Now Mr. Marin remains locked up in an immigration detention center while his child is in a shelter in Texas.Ruben Garcia, who runs a network of migrant shelters in El Paso, said that immigration authorities this month dropped off a distraught 18-year-old woman from Guatemala.The woman said she had given birth less than a week earlier and had been separated from her baby. Child welfare authorities had come to the hospital to take the child, who was a United States citizen; immigration agents took the mother back to a detention cell where she waited for several days. The babys first two weeks were spent away from the mother, who finally regained custody after interventions from multiple legal-aid groups, Mr. Garcia said.Since Mr. Trump ended the family separations under zero tolerance on June 20, about 2,700 children have been reunited with their parents. Still, thousands more children who were separated before the policy officially went into effect have not been accounted for, according to the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services. The investigators cited the lack of an efficient tracking system.The American Civil Liberties Union requested that the government locate the families, and on Friday, Judge Dana M. Sabraw ruled that they should be included in the pending litigation over protecting and reuniting separated families.The hallmark of a civilized society is measured by how it treats its people and those within its borders, the judge wrote in his opinion.Some families affected by the earlier zero-tolerance separations continue to face repercussions.A 9-year-old Guatemalan boy named Byron Xol has been shuffled among four shelters since he was dragged away from his father at the border nine months ago, while the policy was still in place.After his father was deported to Guatemala, the boys parents decided that the child should remain in the United States for safety reasons. With the help of a lawyer, they designated an American family in Buda, Tex., to care for him.But authorities have refused to allow Byron to join the family, citing an anti-trafficking policy that bars a child from being released to a nonrelative sponsor unless the sponsor has a verifiable relationship with the child going back at least a year.Detentions and deportation proceedings have also resulted in family separations far from the border.Christy Swatzell, an immigration lawyer in Memphis, said that two of her clients who crossed the border without authorization and were released to await the outcome of their cases were told by Immigration and Customs Enforcement to leave their children at home ahead of their monthly check-in with the agency. When they showed up at the I.C.E. office, they were detained and transferred to an immigration facility in Louisiana.One of the clients, Francisca Yanes, 33, is the mother of a 6-year-old girl who is physically disabled. I was in tears, telling them about my daughter. But it didnt matter, said Ms. Yanes, whose child, Paola, remained in the care of family members for the entire 45 days she was in detention.The Guatemalan migrant was released on a $7,500 bond set by the court after her lawyer filed a motion on her behalf. What we are seeing is that families are being effectively separated, said Ms. Swatzell. Just not at the border anymore.Miriam Jordan reported from Oakland, Calif., and Caitlin Dickerson reported from New York.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byGood Friday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Rajat Gupta was once a member of the financial elite: the head of McKinsey, a board member of Goldman Sachs and an adviser to Bill Gates. Then he was convicted in 2012 of tipping an insider-trading ring. Now Mr. Gupta, who served two years in prison, has spoken to Andrew about his plight.Mr. Gupta still says hes innocent of securities fraud, despite having been convicted of illegally slipping the hedge fund manager Raj Rajaratnam confidential information about Goldman Sachs. His only regret? Being a little too loose-lipped about corporate secrets.Mr. Gupta forgave Mr. Rajaratnam when the two shared prison time. We played Scrabble in prison together. We played chess. We had breakfast together, Mr. Gupta told Andrew.But he definitely hasnt forgiven Preet Bharara, the prosecutor who put him behind bars. Go after the hedge funds and their circle, play up the story in the press, and maybe no one would notice that the big banking executives were continuing to walk free, Mr. Gupta wrote in a new book, out next week.Since being released three years ago, Mr. Gupta has done some consulting in India, but hasnt reconnected with many business associates from his previous life. I didnt want to put them in a difficult position, he said.But hes learning to move on. Dont get too attached to anything  your reputation, your accomplishments or any of it, Mr. Gupta told Andrew. This thing unjustly destroyed my reputation. Thats only troubling if I am so attached to my reputation.European leaders have pushed back the deadline for Britains exit from the bloc, giving Prime Minister Theresa May and British lawmakers more time to avoid a no-deal Brexit, Stephen Castle and Steven Erlanger of the NYT write.Britains exit date will be pushed back to May 22 if next week Mrs. May can persuade lawmakers in Parliament to accept her plan for leaving the bloc, which they have already rejected overwhelmingly, not once but twice.If she cannot persuade lawmakers to accept her plan, Mrs. May will get a shorter delay in exiting the European Union  until April 12. But Britain could stay in the bloc longer if it decides it needs more time for a more fundamental rethink of Brexit.The E.U. doesnt want Britain to crash out. But officials made it clear that it is for Britain to make serious choices, and soon, and that failure should not be laid at the door of Brussels, Mr. Castle and Mr. Erlanger write.More: Over two million people have signed a petition to cancel Brexit. And Britains Financial Conduct Authority warned that the finance industry still faces big risks in a no-deal scenario.The embattled plane maker will install an extra safety alarm in its 737 Max jets after two fatal plane crashes. But its unclear whether that, together with a forthcoming software upgrade, will be enough to prevent future catastrophes.The new feature warns pilots  if a planes angle of attack sensors, which determine the pitch of the planes nose, disagree with each other. A faulty sensor is suspected of triggering anti-stall software that may have helped cause the Lion Air and Ethiopian Airlines crashes. Until now, this warning system was an optional extra on the Max jets.But its only one of two features that experts say could help make the planes safer, according to the NYT. The other is an indicator that displays the sensors readings, which will remain an optional feature. Neither has been mandated by the F.A.A.The move highlights Boeings practice of selling add-ons. The planemaker has made a lot of money by offering features as upgrades  some of which are important safety items, the NYT reports. (Among them: a backup fire extinguisher for the cargo hold and oxygen masks for the crew.)But the damage continues to grow. Indonesias Garuda airline said today it was seeking to cancel a $4.9 billion order of Max 8 jets. Our passengers, psychologically, they dont trust flying with Max anymore, a spokesman for the airline told the NYT.Small countries, big companies and even just wealthy people can now turn to gun-for-hire hackers to settle their scores, according to an NYT investigation  turning the business into a multibillion-dollar industry.Privatized cyberspying has taken off. Two companies  NSO, an Israeli company, and DarkMatter, based in the United Arab Emirates  have developed sophisticated espionage operations, helped by former government hackers on staff. They help governments perform legitimate law enforcement investigations.But theres a darker side. The Mexican government is suspected of using NSO tools to spy on its own citizens, including journalists and activists. Saudi Arabia has been accused of using NSO products to spy on associates of Jamal Khashoggi. And former DarkMatter employees told the NYT that the U.A.E. used the firms tools to spy on Ahmed Mansoor, a prominent human rights activist.And its lucrative. Francisco Partners, a private equity firm, purchased a 70 percent stake in NSO for $130 million in 2013. Last month, NSOs co-founders raised enough money to buy back a majority stake in NSO at a valuation of just under $1 billion, the NYT reports. Moodys estimates that the so-called lawful intercept spyware market is worth $12 billion.Intellectual property rules for new pharmaceutical products could derail President Trumps push to get his revised North American Free Trade Agreement through Congress, Ana Swanson of the NYT reports. While Mr. Trump secured Canadas and Mexicos signoff on the new agreement last year, the trade pact must be ratified by legislators in all three countries, including by Congress. Democrats, who now control the House, have already made it clear that they will not approve the new trade deal without significant changes to labor and environmental provisions. Now, they are also looking for revisions to the trade deals pharmaceutical provisions, in particular a measure providing an advanced class of drugs called biologics 10 years of protection from cheaper alternatives. A similar conflict over drug industry protections helped delay and ultimately sink the prospects for another trade deal, the Trans-Pacific Partnership.Jared Kushner, President Trumps son-in-law, went to Saudi Arabia in October 2017 in his role as a White House adviser. But his brother, Josh, was there the day before on behalf of his investment firm, David Kirkpatrick of the NYT reports  raising questions about whether Jared could be evenhanded in dealing with the kingdom. Josh Kushner had spent the three days before his brothers arrival at an investor conference, where Prince Mohammed had promised to spend billions of dollars on a high-tech future for Saudi Arabia. Jared Kushner cut ties to Joshs venture firm, Thrive Capital, including by selling his interest in its funds, after he joined the Trump administration. Previously, he had appeared to be closely involved in Thrives operations. Meanwhile, Josh Kushner has kept his distance from his brother. But, Mr. Kirkpatrick writes, Jared was nonetheless discussing American policy with the rulers of the kingdom at virtually the same time that his brother was talking business with their top aides. It is reasonable to question Jared Kushners ability to be impartial, Kathleen Clark, a law professor at Washington University in St. Louis, told the NYT.More Kushner news: Charles Kushner, the father of Jared and Josh, has publicly defended both his real estate company and Jared. And the chairman of the House Oversight and Reform Committee claimed that Jared uses WhatsApp for official government business. Policy reversals at the Fed and the European Central Bank often catch economists off guard. But they can have a profound effect on nations that dont use the dollar or the euro, the WSJ reports. Switzerland and countries near the eurozone but not part of it  like Sweden and Denmark  rely on the bloc for much of their exports and imports. That makes growth and inflation highly dependent on the exchange rate. Central-bank stimulus tends to weaken a countrys exchange rate, so when the E.C.B. embraces easy-money policies, as it did two weeks ago, it tends to weaken the euro against other European currencies, such as the Swiss franc. Because the E.C.B. is so large, Switzerland and others can do little to offset it.As a result, small countries often adopt negative interest rates despite having otherwise healthy economies. That can be costly, particularly for commercial banks that have to pay the equivalent of billions of dollars to store funds.As speculation swirls about the exact timing of Robert Muellers imminent submission of his special counsel report on the Russia investigation, James Comey, the former F.B.I. director, writes in an NYT Op-Ed what he hopes to see: I have no idea whether the special counsel will conclude that Mr. Trump knowingly conspired with the Russians in connection with the 2016 election or that he obstructed justice with the required corrupt intent. I also dont care. I am rooting for a demonstration to the world  and maybe most of all to our president and his enablers  that the United States has a justice system that works because there are people who believe in it and rise above personal interest and tribalism. What Mr. Comey personally doesnt want to see: an impeachment of President Trump, because a significant portion of this country would see this as a coup.Wells Fargo directors are reportedly in talks to hire Harvey Schwartz, the former president of Goldman Sachs, as their banks next C.E.O.Ford Motor hired Tim Stone, who was most recently the chief financial officer of Snap, as its next C.F.O., replacing Bob Shanks.Freddie Mac has named David Brickman, its president, as its next C.E.O., replacing Donald Layton.President Trump plans to name Michael Kratsios as his administrations first chief technology officer.Deals Shares in Levi Strauss jumped 31 percent in their first day of trading yesterday. The N.Y.S.E. relaxed its ban on jeans for the I.P.O.  but only for the day. (Reuters, WSJ) Pinterest reportedly plans to list on the N.Y.S.E. as soon as mid-April. (WSJ) Uber has reportedly picked the N.Y.S.E. for its I.P.O. (Bloomberg) Hyundai shareholders rejected Elliott Managements campaign for board seats and a special dividend. (Reuters) Rent the Runway, the online clothing rental service, has raised $125 million at a $1 billion valuation. (NYT)Politics and policy Americans are souring on the Trump tax cuts, in part because theyre receiving smaller refunds, new polling suggests. (NYT) Economic models, which often accurately predict presidential elections, suggest that President Trump would be re-elected if voting took place today. But economists predict a slowdown between now and 2020, which could change that. (Politico) Several big Democratic donors have reportedly told Joe Biden that they wouldnt back him in the early stages of the partys presidential primary, to see how the field shakes out. (CNBC) Margrethe Vestager, the E.U.s antitrust chief, says she will run for president of the European Commission, hoping to succeed Jean-Claude Juncker. (FT)Tech Facebook stored  millions of user account passwords insecurely. Now might be a good time to read that deleting Facebook from your life isnt as painful as you might expect. (NYT) The founder of 8chan, the website where the suspect in the Christchurch, N.Z., shooting posted a missive, thinks the site didnt move fast enough to take down the message. And distributing the video of the shooting is a crime in the country. (WSJ, NYT) It looks like Tesla sales are falling. Also, the automaker has accused two groups of former employees of stealing trade secrets. (NYT, Verge) Walmart is building A.I. in a bid to compete with Amazon. (WSJ)Best of the rest Michael Steinhardt, a former hedge fund mogul and leading donor to Jewish causes, has been accused of repeated sexual harassment. (NYT) Lawsuits against JetBlue claim that two of its pilots drugged and raped flight attendants. (NYT) Heres everything you need to know about Modern Monetary Theory, but were too afraid to ask. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byPor Elda CantEs jueves! Bienvenido al boletn diario de The New York Times en Espaol. Si an no ests suscrito, puedes darte de alta en este enlace.Tienes sugerencias? Escrbenos a esta direccin. Migrantes en busca de asilo acuden a su cita en tribunales estadounidenses. Los primeros solicitantes de asilo que esperan en Mxico a que se resuelva su caso viajaron esta semana a San Diego para una audiencia ante la corte migratoria de Estados Unidos. Desde finales de enero unas 240 personas han sido devueltas a Mxico como parte del Protocolo de Proteccin al Migrante. Segn los defensores de migrantes, esta medida condena a los solicitantes a esperar la resolucin judicial en una situacin peligrosa en la frontera. El gobierno mexicano, en cambio, se ha mostrado dispuesto a cooperar con el programa; esta semana el presidente Andrs Manuel Lpez Obrador se reuni con Jared Kushner, yerno y asesor del presidente estadounidense, Donald Trump, para discutir asuntos migratorios y comerciales. Un dirigente indgena que defenda su tierra fue asesinado en Costa Rica. Sergio Rojas, lder del pueblo bribri, fue baleado el lunes en su casa. Tena medidas cautelares desde 2015 emitidas por la Comisin Interamericana de Derechos Humanos por su lucha para recuperar tierras indgenas. La Defensora de los Habitantes de Costa Rica indic que horas antes de su muerte Rojas haba acompaado a unos vecinos a poner una denuncia formal por amenazas de usurpadores de terrenos. La fiscala general de la nacin anunci la creacin de un equipo especial de investigacin y prometi total objetividad en el tratamiento del caso. El gobierno mexicano intent espiar a la viuda de un periodista asesinado. No soy criminal ni terrorista, pero he sido objeto de espionaje por el hecho de ser la compaera de Javier, dijo la periodista Griselda Triana, viuda del reportero Javier Valdez, en una rueda de prensa. En diciembre, The New York Times public un reportaje que revelaba que dos colegas de Valdez haban recibido mensajes para ser hackeados con el programa Pegasus pocos das despus del asesinato de su compaero.Mxico est en un escenario distinto al de hace un ao: tiene un nuevo presidente y una nueva Fiscala General. Y Odebrecht confronta a Lpez Obrador con un dilema que definir su sexenio: el caso podra erigirse en el emblema del perdn a los corruptos del pasado, como lo propuso en su discurso inaugural, o en la punta de lanza del combate efectivo a la corrupcin, como lo prometi en su campaa electoral.La operacin Lava Jato solo ha quedado impune en Mxico y en Venezuela. Luis Prez de Acha escribe sobre el desafo que enfrenta el gobierno mexicano para rendir cuentas.A casi una semana de su paso por el sureste de frica, surge un panorama ms claro de los daos causados por el cicln Idai en Mozambique, Malaui y Zimbabue. Las imgenes de esta serie son un testimonio elocuente del poder destructor de estos fenmenos meteorolgicos.El escritor mozambiqueo, Mia Couto, originario de Beira, una de las ciudades ms afectadas por las inundaciones, escribi as a su editor, segn report la prensa en portugus: La verdad estoy casi tan destruido como mi ciudad. Tena la intencin de ir a Beira para sumergirme en el espritu del lugar y ahora, me dicen, ya casi no queda lugar. Es como si me hubieran arrancado una parte de la infancia. No es un secreto que el campo estadounidense depende de la mano de obra de los trabajadores indocumentados. Pero el aumento de los controles migratorios ha causado una crisis que afecta a los agricultores: cada vez menos migrantes cruzan de manera ilegal hacia Estados Unidos y los que son residentes desde hace mucho tiempo han envejecido y rinden menos en el trabajo del campo. La guerra comercial de Trump y el clima extremo han obligado a algunos pequeos productores a cambiar a cultivos de alto valor, a usar menos tierras e incluso a pensar en en vender sus granjas. Hoy vas a trabajar y no sabes si vas a volver a casa a estar con tu familia otra vez, dijo Eladio Beltrn, originario de Oaxaca y que cruz por el desierto de Arizona hace ms de una dcada. Theresa May pide (y consigue) aplazar el brexit [en ingls]. Nueve das antes de la fecha lmite para ejecutar la salida del Reino Unido de la Unin Europea fue aceptada la peticin de la primera ministra May de retrasar tres meses ms el divorcio con el bloque europeo. La solicitud caus divisin en el interior de su gabinete y fastidio entre los funcionarios europeos. La nueva fecha lmite del 30 de junio sera la ltima oportunidad de desvincular al Reino Unido de la unin antes de que se lleven a cabo las elecciones para elegir al Parlamento Europeo. Una teora demogrfica que alimenta el extremismo. El terrorista de Nueva Zelanda y los manifestantes de Charlottesville han aludido a la teora del remplazo, un concepto racista y sexista extendido a travs de internet que asegura que las mujeres blancas no estn teniendo suficientes hijos. La discusin en torno a las tasas de natalidad y la libertad de las mujeres es un argumento de seduccin de los reclutadores del supremacismo blanco. Ms all de los nombres: quines eran las vctimas del ataque en Nueva Zelanda [en ingls]. Un soldador de Bangladesh que celebraba su cumpleaos 33. Un inmigrante jordano que trabajaba en una empresa de lcteos. Una joven experta en administracin agrcola. Un futbolista que entrenaba a los equipos juveniles de la liga de Christchurch. Un nio de 3 aos que vesta su gorra favorita. Esta nota recoge lo que se sabe de las personas que perdieron la vida durante el ataque a dos mezquitas en Nueva Zelanda la semana pasada y ayuda a ponerle un rostro a la tragedia. Una nueva copa al centro de la tensin entre la FIFA y la UEFA. La semana pasada la FIFA anunci que el Mundial de Clubes que se celebrar en junio de 2021 remplazar la Copa Confederaciones e incluir veinticuatro equipos. Este rediseo del campeonato, a celebrarse durante el verano en lugar del invierno, tiene como objetivo potenciar los ingresos para la mxima autoridad global del ftbol y ha creado tensin con los lderes europeos del deporte. Escndalo de corrupcin en el comit olmpico japons. Las autoridades francesas conducen una investigacin sobre posibles sobornos para lograr la adjudicacin de los juegos de verano de 2020 para Tokio. El jefe del comit Tsunekazu Takeda mantiene su inocencia, pero se ha separado de su cargo [en ingls]. Una defensa interesada de las abejas. No solo es la miel que producen, sino lo que esa miel puede decirnos de nuestro entorno. Un grupo de cientficos en Canad ha descubierto que la miel que proviene de colmenas urbanas en Vancouver contiene partculas de plomo que las abejas absorben del ambiente a su alrededor. El hallazgo tiene aplicaciones en el monitoreo de contaminantes y sera un mtodo barato de analizar qu hay en el aire de todo el mundo, segn Dominique Weis, profesora de Geoqumica en la Universidad de Columbia Britnica. Una planta domstica que da lecciones de sobrevivencia. Al pensar en organismos vivos que han perdurado millones de aos solemos hablar de las cucarachas. Pero los helechos que hoy conocemos han estado en la Tierra desde hace unos 180 millones de aos. Sin embargo, nuestro aprecio por estas plantas de hojas abundantes apenas data de la poca victoriana, cuando la pteridomana se convirti en pasatiempo de nobles y plebeyos por igual. Hoy forman parte de mens de degustacin, fantsticos arreglos florales, inspiran a los diseadores con su forma espiral y, en tiempos turbulentos, son un recordatorio de la resiliencia. Al neurlogo Oliver Sacks le gustaba contemplarlos porque era un modo de atestiguar inmensos intervalos de tiempo. Su libro Diario de Oaxaca recoge algo de su aficin a los helechos. Por qu Latinoamrica una regin donde la maternidad es sacrosanta tiene ndices tan altos de violencia obsttrica? Esa es la pregunta que plante la escritora brasilea Vanesa Barbara en nuestra seccin Opinin y nuestras lectoras en redes sociales respondieron as:Marisol Cotarelo atribuye una parte de las actitudes que prevalecen en la regin a la influencia de la iglesia: Amrica Latina no ama a las madres porque no considera a las mujeres sujetos de derecho y con autonoma sobre sus cuerpos. Forzar a las mujeres a parir con dolor o contra su voluntad aunque sean pequeas violentadas por un violador o dejarlas morir en la clandestinidad es una forma legal de esclavitud, apunt.Tambin recibimos testimonios que confirman que la violencia obsttrica es un asunto preocupante. Desde Per, una internauta cont que es frecuente que en las salas de emergencias atestadas de su pas las mujeres den a luz en lavatorios. Y Mel Mint comparti que cuando ella iba nacer, sus padres tuvieron que acudir a una clnica privada ms costosa debido al maltrato que recibieron en un hospital: Tratar mal a una paciente que est por parir es de enfermeras o mdicos malgeniados y sin vocacin de servicio, indic.En su comentario, Carmen Martn desafi el estereotipo latinoamericano: No todas las mujeres quieren tener hijos, no es la mxima aspiracin nuestra. Igual que los hombres. No todos quieren tener hijos. Prefieren ser libres.Gracias por leernos. Maana no te pierdas nuestras recomendaciones para el fin de semana y una seleccin de artculos sobre salud e historias de amor.Tambin puedes compartir este boletn con tus amigos, familiares, seres queridos y no tan queridos. Se pueden registrar en este enlace.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Alan RappeportWASHINGTON  President Trump undercut his own Treasury Department on Friday with a sudden announcement that he had rolled back newly imposed North Korea sanctions, appearing to overrule national security experts as a favor to Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader.The move, announced on Twitter, was a remarkable display of dissension within the Trump administration. It created confusion at the highest levels of the federal government, just as the presidents aides were seeking to pressure North Korea into returning to negotiations over dismantling its nuclear weapons program.It was announced today by the U.S. Treasury that additional large scale Sanctions would be added to those already existing Sanctions on North Korea, Mr. Trump tweeted. I have today ordered the withdrawal of those additional Sanctions!The Treasury Department announced new sanctions on Friday against Iran and Venezuela, but not North Korea.However, economic penalties were imposed on Thursday on two Chinese shipping companies suspected of helping North Korea evade international sanctions. Those penalties, announced with news releases and a White House briefing, were the first imposed against North Korea since late last year and came less than a month after a summit meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim collapsed in Hanoi, Vietnam, without a deal.It was initially believed that Mr. Trump had confused the day that the North Korea sanctions were announced, and officials said they were caught off guard by the presidents tweet. Asked for clarification, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, declined to give specifics.President Trump likes Chairman Kim, and he doesnt think these sanctions will be necessary, she said.Hours later, two officials familiar with Mr. Trumps thinking said the president was actually referring to additional North Korea sanctions that are under consideration but not yet formally issued.That statement sought to soften the blow that Mr. Trumps tweet had dealt to his most loyal aides. Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, personally signed off on the sanctions that were issued on Thursday and hailed the decision in an accompanying statement.The United States and our like-minded partners remain committed to achieving the final, fully verified denuclearization of North Korea, Mr. Mnuchin said in the statement. He described the sanctions as part of an international campaign against North Korea that is crucial to a successful outcome.Sanctions are one of Americas most powerful tools for pressuring rogue nations. Mr. Mnuchin has taken great pride in bolstering Treasurys sanctions capacity and often says that he spends half of his time working on sanctions matters.Tony Sayegh, a Treasury Department spokesman, referred questions about Fridays sanctions confusion to the White House.John R. Bolton, the presidents national security adviser, had also hailed the earlier action against North Korea in a tweet on Thursday: Everyone should take notice and review their own activities to ensure they are not involved in North Koreas sanctions evasion.Mr. Trump has been eager to strike a deal for North Korea to surrender its nuclear weapons arsenal and, in turn, hand him a signature foreign policy achievement that has eluded his predecessors. Hawks in the administration, such as Mr. Bolton, have been wary of trusting Mr. Kim despite Mr. Trumps professed strong personal connection to the North Korean leader.Last month, Mr. Trump was criticized for defending Mr. Kim over the death of Otto F. Warmbier, an American college student who died in 2017 after being imprisoned in North Korea. Mr. Trump said he believed Mr. Kims claim that he was not aware of Mr. Warmbiers medical condition.But in recent weeks there have been increasing signs that the thawing relations between the two countries could again turn frosty.This month, a vice foreign minister of North Korea, Choe Son-hui, accused Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Mr. Bolton of creating an atmosphere of hostility and mistrust despite the chemistry between Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim.In another sign of hardening on Friday, North Korea withdrew its staff from the joint liaison office it has operated with South Korea since September. The office was viewed as a potential first step toward the Koreas establishing diplomatic missions in each others capitals. But North Korea has expressed frustration with how South Korea has been handling its role as a mediator with the United States.The talks between Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim broke down because North Korea wanted the United States to roll back some of its most economically painful sanctions without the North immediately dismantling its nuclear program.As the linchpin of the global financial system, the United States relies on sanctions as one of its most powerful tools for international diplomacy. Officials at the Treasury and State Departments, including career staff members and political appointees, spend months carefully drafting sanctions based on intensive intelligence gathering and legal research.The North Korea sanctions were no different, and the White House held a formal briefing on Thursday afternoon to explain the rationale behind the actions.During the briefing, senior administration officials pushed back on the idea that the sanctions sought to increase pressure on North Korea. Instead, they said, the new measures were meant to maintain the strength of existing sanctions.But one of the senior administration officials strongly rebutted any suggestion that the administration would ease some sanctions as confidence building, or in return for smaller steps by North Korea.It would be a mistake to interpret the policy as being one of a step by step approach, where we release some sanctions in return for piecemeal steps toward denuclearization said the administration official, who spoke to reporters on the condition of anonymity. That is not a winning formula and it is not the presidents strategy.While it is not unusual for the White House to have comment and even final approval of major sanctions, both Republican and Democratic lawmakers have expressed doubts about Mr. Trumps ability to execute sanctions policy responsibly.In 2017, Congress passed legislation imposing sanctions on Russia and limiting the presidents authority to lift them. Under pressure from his own party, Mr. Trump reluctantly signed the bill.The reversal on the North Korea sanctions drew swift condemnation on Friday from Democrats, who accused the president of being reckless with national security.Career experts at the Treasury Department undertake a painstaking process before imposing sanctions, said Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon, the top Democrat on the Finance Committee. For Donald Trump to overturn their decision via tweet because he has an inexplicable fondness for one of the worlds most brutal dictators is appalling.He added, Without a well-conceived diplomatic strategy, Trump is simply undermining our national security by making clear that the United States is not a trusted foreign policy partner.Some Republicans also pushed back against the president, with Senator Cory Gardner of Colorado saying that North Korea sanctions should be imposed. Strategic Patience failed, he tweeted. Dont repeat it.Mr. Trumps decision stunned current and former Treasury Department officials, some of whom wondered if the move was planned in advance as a gesture to Mr. Kim. Others feared that Americas vaunted sanctions regime had been compromised.For an administration that continues to surprise, this is another first  the president of the United States undercutting his own sanctions agency for imposing sanctions on Chinese actors supporting North Korea, said John E. Smith, the former director of the Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control, who left the department last year. Its a win for North Korea and China and a loss for U.S. credibility.Sarah Bloom Raskin, who was deputy Treasury secretary under President Barack Obama, said the sudden backtracking on a decision that would normally be made with comment from intelligence agencies and the National Security Council was perplexing.Reversing sanctions decisions within hours of making the announcement that you would impose them in the first place is a head-spinner, she said. This reversal signals the injection of some peripheral consideration or factor that only the president seems to know about and that may have nothing to do with national security.The Trump administration did issue some new sanctions on Friday. The Treasury Department announced sanctions against Iran, targeting a research and development unit that it believes could be used to restart the countrys nuclear weapons program. It also imposed sanctions on Bandes, Venezuelas national development bank, and its subsidiaries, as part of its effort to topple the government of President Nicols Maduro.Julian Barnes contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe United States is spending beyond its means on a mission that might only be helping its strategic rivals. By Robert D. KaplanMr. Kaplan is an author.The decision by President Trump to withdraw 7,000 of the roughly 14,000 American troops left in Afghanistan, possibly by summer, has raised new concerns about his impulsive behavior, especially given his nearly simultaneous decision to pull out all American forces from Syria against the advice of Defense Secretary Jim Mattis. But the downsizing of the Afghan mission was probably inevitable. Indeed, it may soon be time for the United States to get out of the country altogether.No other country in the world symbolizes the decline of the American empire as much as Afghanistan. There is virtually no possibility of a military victory over the Taliban and little chance of leaving behind a self-sustaining democracy  facts that Washingtons policy community has mostly been unable to accept. While many American troops stay behind steel-reinforced concrete walls to protect themselves from the very population they are supposed to help, it is striking how little discussion Afghanistan has generated in government and media circles in Washington. When it comes to Afghanistan, Washington has been a city hiding behind its own walls of shame and frustration.While the Chinese, Pakistanis, Indians and Iranians are all developing competing energy and mining projects in and next door to Afghanistan, the United States appears to have little commercial future in the country, even though it spends about $45 billion there annually. The total cost of the war could reach as high as $2 trillion when long-term costs are factored in, according to Brown University's Cost of War Project. All that to prop up an unstable government that would most likely disintegrate if aid were to end. Indeed, Afghanistan represents the triumph of the deterministic forces of geography, history, culture, and ethnic and sectarian awareness, with Pashtuns, Tajiks, Uzbeks and Hazaras and other groups competing for patches of ground. Tribes, warlords and mafia-style networks that control the drug trade rule huge segments of the country. To show just how perverted the situation has become, the British regional specialist Anatol Lieven, writing in The National Interest, argues that just because the U.S. money was stolen does not mean that it was wasted, since it has gone to paying off tribal chiefs to keep them from joining the Taliban or becoming feuding warlords.It did not have to be like this. Had the United States not become diverted from rebuilding the country by its invasion of Iraq in 2003 (which I mistakenly supported), or had different military and development policies been tried, these forces of division might have been overcome. According to the Pakistani journalist Ahmed Rashid, there was simply too much emphasis on the electoral process in Kabul and not nearly enough on bread-and-butter nation building  in particular, bringing basic infrastructure and agriculture up to the standards that Afghans enjoyed from the 1950s until the Soviet invasion of 1979.Certainly, no place is hopeless. But that is not where we are now. The heavily Pashtun Taliban, an accessory to the Sept. 11 hijackings, continues to make battlefield gains and, if there are actual peace negotiations, is poised to share power with the American-backed government of President Ashraf Ghani, if not eventually replace it. The United States special adviser to Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad, is trying to broker a diplomatic solution that allows the United States to draw down its forces without the political foundation in Kabul disintegrating immediately.That may be the real reason the United States keeps spending so heavily in Afghanistan. The Pentagon is terrified of a repeat of 1975, when panicked South Vietnamese fled Saigon as Americans pulled out and North Vietnamese forces advanced on the city. The United States military did not truly begin to recover from that humiliation until its victory in the Persian Gulf war of 1991. An abrupt withdrawal from Afghanistan could conceivably provide a new symbol of the decline in American hard power. There is also the fear that an Afghanistan in chaos could once again provide a haven for an international terrorist group determined to perpetrate another Sept. 11-scale attack. Of course, Yemen, Somalia and a number of other places could also provide the setting for that. The point is, we remain in Afghanistan out of fear of even worse outcomes, rather than in the expectation of better ones. Washington now merely hopes that Mr. Khalilzad, an experienced diplomat born in Afghanistan, can deliver a decent interval of stability. The Chinese, Pakistanis, Russians, Indians and Iranians, meanwhile, may all be benefiting more from Americas military operations in Afghanistan than the United States is. Our presence may provide just enough security to allow their energy and transport corridors to take shape, while also helping the Russians guard against Islamic terrorism on their southern border. Thus, our rivals build their own empires on the back of our declining one. One might argue that a collapse of the pro-American government in Kabul would allow those countries to gain even greater footholds in Afghanistan. But then stabilizing the unruly country would become their problem. An enterprising American diplomat, backed by a coherent administration, could try to organize an international peace conference involving Afghanistan and its neighbors, one focused on denying terrorist groups a base in South-Central Asia. It is the kind of project that Henry Kissinger, Richard Holbrooke, James Baker III or George Shultz would have taken up in their day. But it is not something anyone can reasonably expect this administration, as chaotic, understaffed and incompetent as it is, to undertake, especially with the departure of Mr. Mattis.Do we owe it to the Afghan people to stay? Not if the ideals that we claim to represent appear unachievable. Spending billions and stationing thousands of troops there with no end in sight to stem a deepening chaos is simply not sustainable policy. Even a small fraction of that money could be better spent on smarter infrastructure investments in Asia, such as liquid natural gas terminals and dual-use ports in Vietnam to compete with Chinas maritime Belt and Road Initiative.Our withdrawal should not be sudden. It should reduce outlays and give Ambassador Khalilzad time to work out an arrangement with our allies, all without public timetables that enable our adversaries to wait us out. But lets be honest with ourselves: Afghanistan is like the huge and hugely expensive aircraft carriers we continue to build, increasingly obsolete in an era of sophisticated missile technology and hypersonic warfare. It is a vestigial limb of empire, and it is time to let it go. Robert D. Kaplan, a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security and a senior adviser at Eurasia Group, is the author of, most recently, The Return of Marco Polos World: War, Strategy, and American Interests in the Twenty-First Century. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Annie Karni and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON  President Trump said on Monday that he has rejected a proposal by Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina to temporarily reopen the government in an effort to jump-start talks with Democratic lawmakers on funding a border wall.I did reject it, Mr. Trump said of the proposal, speaking to reporters as he boarded Marine One outside of the White House, en route to delivering a speech to a farm convention in New Orleans.In an appearance on Fox News Sunday, Mr. Graham, a close ally of the president, pitched Mr. Trump on a plan for the president to agree to a vote by Congress to reopen the government for about three weeks before he pulls the plug on the legislative option. If there was no progress made during that time, Mr. Graham said, the president could then declare a national emergency as a way to obtain funding for a border wall without congressional action.But Mr. Trump said that he did not want to extend the impasse over funding for the wall. It was not clear, however, what Mr. Trump saw as an alternative. Im not looking to call a national emergency, he said on Monday. This is so simple you shouldnt have to.Mr. Trump, advisers said, has refused to allow his acting chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, or anyone else negotiating on his behalf to compromise on his demand for $5.7 billion in border wall funding. That has led to awkward moments in front of congressional leaders.In a meeting at the White House with lawmakers from both parties on Jan. 4, Mr. Trump castigated Mr. Mulvaney for proposing a compromise figure between Mr. Trumps desired $5.7 billion for a wall and the Democrats offer of $1.3 billion for border security, as a way to end the shutdown.Using an expletive, the president blamed his acting chief of staff for messing up the negotiations. The salty exchange was first reported by Axios.Mr. Trump emerged on the South Lawn on Monday after spending a snowy weekend without leaving the White House grounds. It was a rare occurrence for a president who typically spends weekend afternoons during winter on his golf course in Palm Beach.But Mr. Trumps physical presence in the capital has become one of the ways he has tried to demonstrate his willingness to negotiate with Democrats on funding the wall, even as he has staked out an intractable position on the issue. It is a point of pride he has highlighted on Twitter and in interviews, as he has become concerned about the perception that he is being outmaneuvered by Speaker Nancy Pelosi, a veteran negotiator who even Mr. Trump has praised in the past.Just over 100 years ago, the first woman was sworn into Congress. As of this month, a record 131 women are serving in the Legislature. The New York Times photographed them.I havent left the White House in months, Mr. Trump told Jeanine Pirro, the Fox News host who is also a personal friend of the presidents, in a phone-in interview on her show Saturday night. In fact, Mr. Trump traveled to the Texas border earlier in the week.On Monday, Mr. Trump again highlighted his physical presence in Washington as a selling point. Ive been here all weekend, Mr. Trump said. A lot of the Democrats were in Puerto Rico celebrating something. I dont know, maybe theyre celebrating the shutdown.While about 30 Democratic lawmakers, most of whom are members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, spent the weekend at an annual winter retreat in Puerto Rico, Ms. Pelosi spent the entire weekend in Washington, a spokesman said.Mr. Trump, advisers said, still believes he has the upper hand with Democrats. But people in the White House have become increasingly concerned as the shutdown drags on and public opinion polls have shown that the majority of the country pins the blame on Mr. Trump.About 53 percent of Americans see Mr. Trump and the Republicans as mainly at fault for the shutdown, according to a Washington Post-ABC News poll conducted between Jan. 8 and 11. Only 29 percent blamed Democrats in Congress for the partial government shutdown that has left 800,000 federal employees working without pay, or furloughed.Adding to Mr. Trumps rigidity in the shutdown negotiations is the anticipation among White House officials that a report from the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, could be delivered to the Justice Department in the coming weeks. Mr. Trump is agitated by the prospect of Mr. Muellers report, according to people who have spoken with him, even as advisers have tried to downplay what might be in it.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Sopan DebIt was a rarity for Saturday Night Live this weekend: an opening sketch that had absolutely nothing to do with President Trump or politics.Instead, the show sent up the much talked about sit-down between the CBS This Morning host Gayle King and the singer R. Kelly, who has been charged with 10 counts of aggravated criminal sexual abuse involving four women, three of whom were underage at the time. Leslie Jones played King while Kenan Thompson portrayed Kelly, who repeatedly asked Jones to call him Victim. She declined.Thompson voiced multiple asides in the style of Kellys Trapped in the Closet series and told Jones that he had more than millions of dollars: thousands.When asked about the recent Lifetime documentary series Surviving R. Kelly, in which many of the alleged abuses where recounted, Thompson said: They made it seem like I was the Devil. Im not the Devil. and even if I was, you cant think of one nice thing to say about the Devil? I can. Nice horns. Gives good advice.The sketch also went on to parody the moment when Kelly came unglued and got out of his chair during the CBS interview. But first, the singer seemed confused about whether the interview had even started. He didnt recognize the cameras directly in front of him.You all just keep your camera out in the open like that? Thompson asked. You all are some freaks.Asked directly if he had ever held women against their will, Thompson said: O.K. guys, think for a minute. Use your brains. Why would I do these things? For 30 years. I gave you all Trapped in the Closet. Feelin on Yo Booty. Age Aint Nothing but a Number. And so many other clues.The standout sketch this week took aim at uproars over Hollywood casting decisions, spurred by social media mobs. The parody came in the form of a game show hosted by Thompson called Can I Play That?  actors least favorite game.The game featured three contestants, played by this weeks host, Idris Elba, and by Beck Bennett and Cecily Strong, each of whom portrayed working actors asked to give their best guesses as to who was allowed to play certain roles.Thompson started by asking contestants about a recent real-life example: Will Smiths casting as Richard Williams, the father of Venus and Serena Williams. Some have criticized the choice, arguing that Smith is too light-skinned to play Richard Williams. Can he play that?Bennett hit the buzzer first: Yes, of course, hell do a great job, he said.He was wrong. Strong buzzed in with the right answer: Absolutely not, hes not black enough.Responding to Elba, who asked if this was real, Thompson said: It sure is. Because this game is produced by Twitter. Twitter: One mistake, and well kill you.The rest of the sketch followed along the same lines. Elbas character was told he was not allowed to play a blind person.Isnt that what acting is about? Elba asked. You know, becoming someone youre not?Not anymore, no. Thompson replied. Now its about becoming yourself but with a different haircut.By the end of the sketch, it was decided that no one could play Caitlyn Jenner in a biopic and that Rami Malek could play anyone he wanted. In a lightning round, Bennett guessed correctly that a white male like him could play a white guy, a white guy who gained 50 pounds, slave owner, and thats it.This week, Colin Jost and Michael Che kicked off Weekend Update by taking on the sentencing of Paul Manafort, Trumps former campaign chairman who was sentenced to less than four years in one of the two cases against him, well below the sentencing guidelines.Jost:O.K., heres how bad Trumps presidency is going. His campaign manager this week was sentenced to four years in prison, and for Trump, thats good news. Paul Manafort, who looks like he was born divorced, faced up to 24 years in prison but only got four years, probably in a minimum security white collar facility with a bunch of his friends. The guy stole over $50 million and he basically got sentenced to college.Che later added:Paul Manafort got 47 months for tax evasion and bank fraud, which, as a black guy, feels very unfair. But for a rich black guy, its a little encouraging. I mean if I could steal millions of dollars and the United States presidency in exchange for, like, three years of prison in my 70s? I cant promise I wont try.Jost went on to riff about a photo published Friday in the Miami Herald of Trumps Super Bowl party at his country club in West Palm Beach:It was reported that President Trump watched the Super Bowl at Mar-a-Lago with Li Yang, the woman who founded the chain of Asian day spas where Patriots owner Robert Kraft allegedly solicited a prostitute. First of all, what a time to be alive, huh? Second, you know that Trump spent all their time together trying to convince her to give up North Koreas nuclear weapons.Che then dug into Trump regarding his Friday visit to Alabama in the wake of several deadly tornadoes there, which have killed at least 23 people:President Trump visited tornado victims in Alabama and signed bibles for them. Now, I dont know, man. Im not a very religious guy, but I feel like when youre getting your bible signed by a dude that raw dogs porn stars, youre probably not a very religious guy either.S.N.L. loves a good celebrity cameo, and this week it was Gwyneth Paltrow, who was brought onto Weekend Update to mock her own lifestyle company, Goop.The bit started innocently enough as Che invited a Goop staffer, played by Heidi Gardner, to discuss the companys recent wellness summit. She presented a Goop body wash, which was made with ginger and something called ashwagandha. Unfortunately, she couldnt properly describe what ashwagandha was, so she brought on her supervisor, Pfeiffer, played by Paltrow herself.When Gardner expressed the worry that she would be fired, Paltrow-as-Pfeiffer reassured her that the real-life Paltrow didnt believe in firing: Remember, its called conscious unemploying.Perhaps tied to the release of Captain Marvel, S.N.L. tried a Marvel parody of its own with a version of The Incredible Hulk titled The Impossible Hulk, in which Elba played Bruce Banner. In this case, however, instead of turning into a supersized green monster when he got angry, Banner morphed into an emboldened white lady.The enjoyable short featured Strong turning the self-entitlement up to the maximum while harassing neighbors having a party, exploding at a police officer during a traffic stop, and losing it at a cashier trying to enforce a store credit policy.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byFRONT PAGEAn article on Friday about the most expensive residential sale in United States history described incorrectly the gift Kenneth Griffin gave to Harvard. Mr. Griffins $150 million gift to Harvard University in 2014 was, at the time, the largest gift in the schools history; the university has since received larger donations.BUSINESSBecause of an editing error, an article about layoffs at BuzzFeed and other media companies misstated Gannetts reason for reducing the size of its work force. It is to shore up its shrinking profits, not to attract a buyer.MAGAZINEAn article this weekend about Mitch McConnell misstated the number of American troops in Afghanistan and the number of troops that President Trump said he would withdraw from the country. Seven thousand of 14,000 American troops in Afghanistan were going to be pulled out. It is not the case that only 7,000 troops were still deployed to Afghanistan.OBITUARIESAn obituary on Thursday about Mary Boyd Higgins, the psychoanalyst Wilhelm Reichs trustee, using information from a family member, misstated the year she moved to Lexington, Ky., where she died. It was 2018, not 2001.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Jason HorowitzROME  Italy resisted the entreaties and warnings of its European Union and American allies on Saturday by officially joining Chinas vast new Silk Road at a signing ceremony with President Xi Jinping of China, a move that crystallized shifting geopolitical balances and the populist Italian governments willingness to break with its traditional partners.The agreement will build a better relationship between China and Italy, Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte of Italy said.Italy became the first of the Group of 7 nations that once dominated the global economy to take part in Chinas One Belt One Road project, which makes enormous infrastructure investments to move Chinese goods and resources throughout Asia, Africa and Europe.The Trump administration, which tried and failed to stop the deal, focused in the days leading up to Mr. Xis visit on blocking any Italian use of 5G wireless networks developed by the Chinese electronics giant Huawei, which Washington warned could be used by Beijing to spy on communications networks.Against the backdrop of Italian, Chinese and European flags, a host of Chinese and Italian ministers and business leaders signed 29 separate agreements at the Villa Madama, marking the culmination of Mr. Xis visit to Rome, where he was welcomed as a prized ally and, critics said, conqueror.The memorandum of understanding formalized on Saturday provides a framework agreement for billions of euros in business deals between Italian and Chinese-state backed companies. But analysts said that what mattered more was its political symbolism, as it signaled waning American influence, a rising China and tensions among the founding partners of the European Union.Interior Minister Matteo Salvini, Italys most powerful politician, was notably absent from the signing ceremony. In the weeks leading up to the agreement, he publicly assumed a more American-aligned and skeptical posture toward the deal, though he did not try to stop it. After the deal was done, he again ridiculed the notion that China was a free market, but said that as long as the deal served Italian interests, he was satisfied.By contrast, his coalition partner, Luigi Di Maio, the leader of the anti-establishment Five Star Movement, championed the deal and made several visits to China in recent months. On Saturday, he beamed at the Villa Madama as he signed the first several agreements with Chinese counterparts, including those explicitly declaring Italys participation on new economic and maritime Silk Roads.Like someone in the United States said America first, Mr. Di Maio said, I continue to repeat Italy first in commercial relations.The Chinese leader punctuated the signings by shaking the hand of Mr. Conte before flying off to the Sicilian capital, Palermo, a port city that hopes to benefit from Chinese investment, tourism and orange exports to China.Mr. Xi, who was celebrated by the Italians with a state dinner and cavalry escort, is likely to get a less-festive greeting on Sunday when he visits Nice, France. President Emmanuel Macron, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and representatives of the European Union will meet with him there and present a united front against what they consider Chinas aggressive, and troubling, economic expansion into Europe.This past week, as Mr. Xi met with Italian leaders, Mr. Macron announced an end to the period of European navet with regard to China and sought to strengthen rules protecting strategic economic sectors. They insisted on more reciprocity and transparency from China and sought to convince Mr. Conte that he was making a critical error by joining the One Belt One Road project.Italy, which is saddled with crushing debt, hopes to lift its lagging economy by exporting goods to China and inviting more Chinese investment.But opponents of the project in the Trump administration and in the European Union worry that Italy has turned itself into a Trojan Horse, allowing Chinas economic  and potentially military and political  expansion to reach into the heart of Europe.The Italians say their allies are exaggerating.Michele Geraci, the chief Italian negotiator of the deal and an under secretary for economic development, said that Italy would avoid Chinas debt traps and that its laws prevent foreigners from taking control of its ports, as China has done in Piraeus, Greece. He also argued that Italys European partners, who do billions of dollars more business every year with China, had already let them in.China uses the European Union as 28 Trojan doors, he said, referring to the number of member states in the bloc. Italy, he said, had expanded its legal powers to defend against Chinese predatory acquisitions, especially in sectors of national security.We are the country in Europe and probably the world that would least fear a Trojan effect, said Mr. Geraci, adding that because he had lived in China for a decade, I know China very well, and we are more able than others to spot any risks.Even critics of the government argued that the agreement gave Italy a chance to catch up to Germany and France, which had much more business with China than Italy did.Its a positive thing, said former Prime Minister Romano Prodi, who attended the state dinner for Mr. Xi on Friday night. Its a competition between the countries of Europe.China also sees positive opportunities in Italys ports, which are connected to railways that run into the heart of Central Europe. But that is not new: The difference now is the willingness of the Italians to let them in.Zeno DAgostino, the president of Triestes port authority, who signed one of the agreements in Rome on Saturday, said it was only natural that Italians would be looking to China because the Trump administration had withdrawn from the world.China, he said, is opening because it feels strong, and a port had to do business with those who engaged in the world.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe New New WorldBehind the scenes, businesspeople worry that Beijing has become more interested in solidifying its control over peoples lives than promoting economic growth. By Li YuanChen Tianyong, a Chinese real estate developer in Shanghai, boarded a flight to Malta last month with no plans to return anytime soon.After landing, Mr. Chen, a former judge and lawyer, shared on social media a 28-page article explaining himself. Why I Left China, read the headline, An Entrepreneurs Farewell Admonition.Chinas economy is like a giant ship heading to the precipice, Mr. Chen wrote. Without fundamental changes, its inevitable that the ship will be wrecked and the passengers will die. My friends, he urged, if you can leave, please make arrangements as early as possible.It is unclear how many people saw the article before it disappeared from Chinas heavily censored internet. But Mr. Chen said publicly what many businesspeople in China are saying privately: Chinas leadership has mismanaged the worlds second-largest economy, and Chinas entrepreneur class is losing confidence in the countrys future. For more than a generation, China has been fueled by optimism that, despite its problems, tomorrow will be better than today. Now, the prevailing view is best summed up by an online meme made popular by Wang Xing, the founder and chief executive of Meituan Dianping, the online delivery and takeout company. The year 2019, goes the meme, may be the worst year in this decade, but it will be the best year in the next decade.Chinas economy is slowing, and the trade war with the United States has pinched growth. But many entrepreneurs are more broadly worried that China wont pursue the economic and political liberalization it needs. On the contrary, since Xi Jinping took control of the Communist Party in 2012, the party has increased its dominance in every aspect of Chinese society.Few are predicting a crash, but worries over Chinas long-term prospects are growing. Pessimism is so high, in fact, that some businesspeople are comparing Chinas potential future to another country where the government seized control of the economy and didnt ease up: Venezuela. Only one-third of Chinas rich people say they are very confident in the countrys economic prospects, according to a recent survey of 465 wealthy individuals by Hurun, a Shanghai-based research firm. Two years ago, nearly two-thirds said they were very confident. Those who have no confidence at all rose to 14 percent, more than double the level of 2018. Nearly half said they were considering migrating to a foreign country or had already started the process.China is facing a lot of internal and external challenges now, said Fred Hu, founder of the investment firm Primavera Capital Group and former head of Goldman Sachss Greater China business. We need to realize that all of our achievements in the past 40 years were the results of opening up and economic reform, not because of any unique China development model.Mr. Hus comments are diplomatic. In private, some businesspeople are talking in angrier and more fearful ways. They asked for anonymity, of course. In todays tightly controlled environment in China, even the economy  once considered a safe subject  has become dangerous to talk about. The most important cause of their pessimism is bad policy and bad leadership, said Minxin Pei, a professor at Claremont McKenna College in California who is in frequent contact with business figures. Its clear to the private businesspeople that the moment the government doesnt need them, itll slaughter them like pigs. This is not a government that respects the law. It can change on a dime.Many members of the business elite are unhappy that the leaderships economic policies favor state-owned enterprises even though the private sector drives growth. They are angry that the party is trying to put a Mao-era ideological straitjacket on an economy driven by private enterprises and young consumers. They are upset that the party eliminated term limits last year, raising the prospect that Mr. Xi could become president for life. Many businesspeople feel increasingly insecure, especially as some entrepreneurs are disappeared by the government to assist in the anticorruption campaigns.In the eyes of some senior officials, even people like Jack Ma and Pony Ma are just small-time businessmen, Mr. Chen said in an interview, referring to the founders of Alibaba and Tencent, two of Chinas biggest private enterprises.Mr. Xi appears to be aware of the unease. Beijing has postponed new rules that would raise business taxes to pay for social benefits and has eased its monetary and fiscal policies. Still, the partys priorities appear to be elsewhere. In his December speech commemorating 40 years of Chinas opening, Mr. Xi argued that his recipe of guided growth under strong Communist Party control must not waver. In another important speech to the partys top officials last month, Mr. Xi identified seven major risks for national security, with politics and ideology topping the list, and he called for tighter control of young people and the internet.Chinas power structure lacks a way to counterbalance this trend. A few young hedge fund managers told me over dinner in Hong Kong that the trade war with President Trump could be a blessing in disguise because it might force Beijing to undertake structural reforms to reach a deal. Only Mr. Trump can save China, it is often said at private gatherings, only half-jokingly.The trade war is a bad thing to begin with, said Mr. Hu of Primavera Capital. But if the final resolutions lead to renewed efforts by China to undertake broad structural reforms, it will be a win-win situation for the U.S., China and the world.The relationship between the business elite and the party wasnt always like this. Some businesspeople cheered Mr. Xi when he came to power, his anticorruption crackdown signaling to them that he was building a rules-based society. But disillusioned executives told me that tighter government control means more bureaucrats have a say in business matters, and corruption simply takes different forms.Can it be stopped? Some businesspeople are pessimistic. Mr. Chen, the real estate developer, says the solution is to leave.Its impossible to say how many people agree. Even those who have left China may still run businesses there, making them reluctant to speak out. Plus, the country still has many optimists who say this rough patch wont last.But many of Chinas rich have been voting with their feet. The number of Chinese people moving to the United States on investor visas has surged in recent years. Of the one million foreign students in the United States, one-third are from China.Now 53, Mr. Chen decided in early 2013 that he had better start looking at places outside mainland China. The trigger was a widely circulated party directive that urged an offensive against liberal political ideas and values. It was a very terrifying signal, he said.He first secured permanent resident status in Hong Kong, a special administrative region of China, but concerns about its autonomy have grown since Beijing responded fiercely to pro-democracy protests there in 2014. He applied for the investor visa to the United States, but the wait time was too long.He then bought more than a dozen apartments in the Malaysian capital, Kuala Lumpur, and urged his relatives and close friends to do the same. He called it his Noahs Ark plan, to prepare for the destructive flood that China might experience. But his Malaysia visa was valid for only 10 years.Mr. Chen said he had finally settled on Malta because it was warm, beautiful and a member of the European Union, which meant he would be able to travel to other countries in the bloc.For the entrepreneur class, he said, leaving China is the best way to resist Communist rule. Once people leave, they will manage to take at least some assets with them despite the strict capital controls the government has imposed in recent years. They can come back when the circumstances change, Mr. Chen said, much like many overseas Chinese did in the 1980s and 90s. Mr. Chen is learning English and exploring his interest in religion. He still has some businesses in China but doesnt need to tend to them in person. He said he had never really considered changing his citizenship because life was tough for first-generation immigrants. He only wanted to find a safe place for his family, he said, to protect against a worst-case scenario that he believes will materialize unless theres a miracle.I didnt expect my article would be circulated so widely, he said. For the time being, it might be best that I stay out of China.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Stephen CastleHEMEL HEMPSTEAD, England  Martin Bradford played guitar at a local venue for the better part of a decade, but he avoids the place now because performing there would mean working with its sound engineer.And that would not end well.Sipping a pint in a riverside pub, Mr. Bradford recalls how he casually mentioned his vote to leave the European Union and instantly lost a friend.Youve taken my retirement away, Mr. Bradford was told, the reasoning being that the sound engineer hoped to move to another European Union country, a right that Brexit could threaten.Once that conversation had happened there was no going back, said Mr. Bradford, who also avoids members of his old band after some posted comments on social media that, he said, painted the people who voted leave as racists, bigots, evil, stupid.Like the election of President Trump, the 2016 Brexit referendum vote crystallized divisions between cities and towns, young and old, the beneficiaries of globalization and those left behind.And far from fading, the Brexit divide seems to have become entrenched within many British workplaces, families and social circles.The basics of Brexit, the troubled plan for Britain to quit the European Union.Friendships lost or relationships broken by Brexit have been bemoaned by politicians, featured in newspaper advice columns and spawned novels and at least one play.According to one survey, more than a third of those who wish to remain in the European Union would be upset if a close relative married a strong leave supporter, suggesting that Brexit has morphed into a clash of values.In the aftermath of the referendum, Relate, a counseling service, said that a fifth of the 300 relationship support practitioners surveyed had worked with clients who argued over Brexit. And analysts say Britons are increasingly likely to define themselves in relation to Brexit, rather than allegiance to a party, a dividing line noticed by psychotherapists too.Its a bit like 16th-century France between the Catholics and the Protestants, said Brett Kahr, senior clinical research fellow in psychotherapy and mental health at the Center for Child Mental Health, adding: I think there is a great deal of hatred of one position toward the other, and a lack of willingness to engage.It doesnt make sense to begin to doubt your position if you are so certain your position is the correct one, Mr. Kahr said.Of course, many Britons have tuned out, bored by endless and incomprehensible Brexit twists in Parliament. Talk of a religious war sounds overblown to Giles Fraser, rector of St. Marys church in Newington, South London, but he accepts that people are talking past each other in a way that perhaps believers, and nonbelievers, might talk past each other.Its definitely visceral, its definitely nasty, and there are certainly people who wont accept the core of the other persons position, added Mr. Fraser, who thinks that his support for Brexit in London, which generally voted the other way, cost him friends.If it is hard being a pro-Brexit clergyman in London, it is no easier being a remain supporter in Meden Vale, a former mining village in Nottinghamshire, 150 miles north of the capital, where most people voted leave.But not Chris Hawkins. I cant honestly think of anyone from Meden Vale among my group of friends or people I know who voted remain, apart from myself, said Mr. Hawkins, who works with children with educational problems.After arguments about Brexit, Mr. Hawkins sees less of his two best friends, who now tend to socialize or take bike rides without him. With his parents there has been tension though the major conflict was with one of his partners relatives. The discussion was not very good, he said with understatement. He erupted.Weve not been invited to family birthday parties or get-togethers post referendum, whereas before we were, said Mr. Hawkins who thinks that, here, remainers are seen as being removed from the real world. I did get a lot of, You went to university, after the vote, he added.Some experts worry that, rather than open feuding, a chilly silence has descended across parts of a population that is often adept at avoiding confrontations.Brexit is ever-present in the consulting room, said Sarah Niblock, chief executive of the United Kingdom Council for Psychotherapy. It is now so excruciating, and so difficult for people to have conversations about Brexit  families, workplaces neighbors are so split  there is so much of a division between groups in society that it is almost as if the therapeutic room has become the last place people can talk with any ease.Those trying to make sense of it all include Candida Yates, professor of culture and communication at Bournemouth University, who is researching Brexit sentiment.Her idea was to get the two groups in the same room but, when that proved impossible she initially met them separately.They were very, very emotional, said Ms. Yates. It was a very powerful experience: people coming together who didnt know each other, there were tears  and these were all with people who voted the same way.For the remainers it was rather like a bereavement group. There was this huge sense of loss. People talked about waking up on the day of the vote crying and in shock and they didnt fully understand it themselves. They understood that they were upset but why did they feel so strongly? So it was a bit like a therapy group.For leavers there was more a sense of grievance than grief, Ms. Yates said, and a feeling that they had been left behind, they had been forgotten, it was really this town-city divide.Winning the referendum was an unexpected victory  some described it as a gift  but a precarious one.They couldnt quite believe their luck and also said  even back then in 2016  It will be taken away,  Ms. Yates said. They were saying, They wont let us have it. There was a real feeling of them and us and a feeling of powerlessness. They had managed to get this, but how long they could hang on to it, they didnt know, she added.More recently, Ms. Yates managed to cajole two groups into the same room. People talked about it being like a civil war, she said. Indeed, some mentioned Britains Civil War, which took place in the 17th century, or even episodes further back in history.They talked about the Civil War, they talked about the Norman yoke, people have gone back and back. Its as if these earlier schisms had been reawoken.She noted tension within families, a fact that chimes with Samantha Raaphorst, a part-time language student who cares for two autistic children in Leeds, and who struggles to communicate with the family of her elder sons father, from whom she separated some years ago.When Brexit featured on the news during a visit, she said, They asked me how I voted, and I said I voted remain, and suddenly the atmosphere of the room completely changed.They didnt understand my point of view at all, Ms. Raaphorst said. They said, Why wouldnt you want this country to be great again? Why wouldnt you want us to start trading with other global powers? Why wouldnt you want us to be Great Britain? And they started talking about empire. I was absolutely stunned.I wrote them a letter saying I was quite upset about what happened, Ms. Raaphorst said. They sent my son a letter saying that they just want to protect him from people coming in and out of the country that might hurt him.For Andrew Parnall, a software trainer who lives in Derby, Brexit has also caused family tension, in his case with his niece, a leave supporter. We dont talk much now, it has poisoned the well, he said.Mr. Parnall recalls crying on the morning of the referendum result and says he feels emotional still.In his former office everyone knew his views and, at Christmas, the referendum featured satirically in his secret Santa gift: a signed copy of a photograph of the Brexit campaigner Nigel Farage.I chucked it in the bin, he said. Everyone else was getting bottles of wine and saying thank you. I was jumping up and down on a picture.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byFURTHER READINGBy Alexandra Alter and Concepcin de LenNearly a month after Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, delivered his report on Russian interference in the 2016 election  and whether Donald Trump and his associates conspired with Russia or obstructed justice  to Attorney General William P. Barr, members of Congress, and the public, are still waiting to read the reports contents.This week, Barr told Congress that he plans to make a redacted version of the Mueller report public, possibly by next week.While we wait to read the report  here are some books to occupy you the meantime.Based on rare interviews with Mueller, as well as with more than 150 former government and city officials, this book covers the former FBI directors tenure and legacy, as well as the evolution of the Bureau. Graff explains that while FBI agents were once focused on solving crimes, post 9/11 they have also been tasked with preventing them, especially potential terrorist threats. The job has become more complex, in other words, and Graff argues that as the person who led the institution through this transition, Mueller is the most influential leader of the FBI since J. Edgar Hoover. When Trump fired F.B.I. director James Comey in May 2017, it triggered a rapid cascade of events within the Department of Justice that ultimately led to Muellers appointment as special counsel. In this mega-best seller, Comey describes his role in the high-stakes investigation into ties between the Trump campaign and Russia. Writing in the Times, Michiko Kakutani praised Comeys eye for detail, referring to him as what Saul Bellow called a first-class noticer.Comeys book fleshes out the testimony he gave before the Senate Intelligence Committee in June 2017 with considerable emotional detail, and it showcases its authors gift for narrative  a skill he clearly honed during his days as United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, she wrote.This scathing indictment (no, not in the technical sense) of the Trump administration is from the former deputy director of the F.B.I., who was fired last year right before his planned retirement. McCabe is unsparing in the book: The work of the F.B.I. is being undermined by the current president.Our critic Dwight Garner took appreciative note of McCabes lean prose: The first sentence demands to be read in the voice of Jack Webb from Dragnet: Between the world of chaos and the world of order stands the rule of law.Bharara, the former United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, was also fired by Trump in 2017, which seems to be a great way to get a book deal.Bharara oversaw a significant investigation into insider trading by Wall Street executives, and also investigated Russian money laundering. Lately, he has become an omnipresent commentator on the myriad investigations into Trump (in addition to his new book and regular TV appearances, he has a popular podcast, Stay Tuned With Preet).But when it comes to the timing and content of the Mueller report, hes as much in the dark as the rest of us, apparently.Harding, a correspondent for The Guardian, explores Trumps decades-long entanglements with Russia in what his publisher describes as a conspiracy so huge it involves international espionage, offshore banks, sketchy real estate deals, the Miss Universe pageant, mobsters, money laundering, poisoned dissidents, computer hacking, and the most shocking election in American history. Harding delves into Trumps deals with Deutsche Bank and examines Trumps campaign manager Paul Manaforts extensive ties to Russian and Ukranian oligarchs.(Its an exhaustive account, but by now, its a bit out of date: The book came out in 2017, many indictments and plea deals ago.)Isikoff and Corn, two veteran journalists in Washington, lay out how Russia unleashed hackers and internet trolls to disrupt the 2016 presidential election. They also explore the puzzling ties between Trump and his associates and Russian officials. In a review for The Times, the Times journalist Steven Lee Myers, the author of The New Tsar: The Rise and Reign of Vladimir Putin, wrote: For anyone who believes in the better angels of American politics, Russian Roulette is a depressing book. The Russian hacking, it is now clear, simply exploited the vulgarity already plaguing American political campaigns, which churn on spin and strategy (and money) far more than vision or values.In The Apprentice, Miller, a Pulitzer Prize-winning reporter who has covered national security for The Washington Post, details how Russia exploited American technology platforms to spread misinformation, damaging Hillary Clinton and boosting Trump, while at the same time hacking and releasing Democratic emails, further inflaming partisan divisions in an already nasty campaign. He also explores links between Trump and his associates and Russia, but steers clear of speculation about what the ultimate revelations regarding Trumps possible complicity might be.Miller makes no pretense about knowing the end of the story and acknowledges that at this point he does not know whether the special counsel, Robert Mueller, will accuse the president of any crimes, a critic wrote in The Washington Post.McFaul, a former ambassador to Russia, was responsible for what became known as the Reset, a political plan put in place during the Obama administration to reboot relations with the country. McFaul argues that he and Barack Obama were able to drive forward a range of policies, but that the election of Vladimir Putin halted their plans. McFaul became persona non grata in Russia. He and his family were closely surveilled, and McFaul was subjected to cyber attacks meant to discredit him, such as YouTube videos suggesting he was a pedophile or a fake Twitter account that posted criticisms of the Russian elections under his name. McFaul combines both analytical and personal perspectives to offer a fascinating and timely account of the current crisis in the relationship between Russia and the United States, our reviewer wrote. This is the definitive account of the explosive investigation that brought down President Richard Nixon, by two now-famous reporters from The Washington Post. More recently, with his latest best-seller, Fear, Woodward has unleashed his investigative skills on the Trump administration.It took Kenneth Starr, a former special counsel, around four years and $40 million to complete his investigation into President Bill Clintons affair with Monica Lewinsky, and whether Clinton committed perjury and obstructed justice in an effort to cover up the scandal. The salacious account is a door-stopper, almost 500 pages long.Several publishers, including Skyhorse, Scribner and Melville House, as well as the audiobook publisher Audible, have already announced their plans to publish the Mueller report and have made the books available on Amazon for pre-order. (Presumably the pages are still blank.)Or, if you cant wait, you can always reread some of Muellers vividly detailed indictments. Those documents lay out contours of the investigation so far, which has led to 199 charges against 34 people and three companies.Alexandra Alter writes about publishing and the literary world. Before joining The Times in 2014, she covered books and culture for The Wall Street Journal. Prior to that, she reported on religion, and the occasional hurricane, for The Miami Herald.

  @xanalter Concepcin de Len is a digital staff writer covering news and culture for the Books section.  Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byTrumps cruel separation of immigrant families continued after he declared he was ending the practice.By Nicholas KristofOpinion ColumnistPresident Trump claimed last June to have ended the practice of separating immigrant families at the southern border. We are going to keep the families together, he declared from the Oval Office.Mr. President, meet Clemente and his daughter Wendy, both fleeing gang violence in Guatemala. Your administration separated them six months ago and kept them apart.These family separations, continuing but at a lower level than before, are an element of the real emergency at the border  the one also involving physical and sexual abuse of immigrant children in U.S. custody and systematic deception from Washington.The paradox is that Trumps cruel policy to deter desperate immigrants appears counterproductive; apparently the furor it provoked drew attention to the possibility of migration. The result is a surge of Central American families traveling to the United States, with the number crossing the border far higher than a year earlier.[Follow Nicholas Kristof as he travels around the United States and the world, shedding light on crises and hailing unsung heroes. For a behind-the-scenes look at Nicks gritty journalism, sign up for his newsletter.]Clemente, 34, is from a small Guatemalan village. He doesnt want to use his last name because of all he has been through at the hands of the U.S. government. There is no way to verify parts of his story, but individuals who work with immigrants say it rings true.A gang in Guatemala murdered his cousin, and last year gangsters stabbed Clementes father and sent warnings to Clemente: Its now your turn.Terrified, Clemente fled with his eldest daughter, Wendy, then 15, leaving his wife and five other, younger children, whom he did not believe the gang would target. He feared that the gang would abduct Wendy, an excellent student who loves books, and he could not bear that thought.They crossed Mexico without serious incident, then waded across the Rio Grande and turned themselves in to Border Patrol officers, requesting asylum. That was Aug. 20, two months after Trump said he had ended the family separation policy. But officials promptly separated Clemente and Wendy.Clemente was put in a hielera, or ice box, notorious detention rooms predating Trump that are kept cold. Clemente, wet from the river crossing, was soon freezing as well as hungry and weak because he had given his food to Wendy. As a dad, the last thing you want is for your daughter to suffer, he explained simply. So I gave everything to her.In this frail state, he caught pneumonia and passed out. Many hours went by before he was taken to a hospital, unconscious and gravely ill. Inadequate health care in detention centers is common, and two migrant children died in December in Border Patrol custody.I woke up in the hospital, and I didnt know where I was, Clemente told me. It was a nightmare. My first question was, Wheres my daughter? After he was released from the hospital and later from detention, he found himself on the streets of Brownsville, Tex.He was distraught and he was crying, recalled Sergio Cordova, a volunteer in Brownsville who does heroic work with immigrants, funded by donations, and discovered Clemente at the bus station. I gave him a hug and he started saying he cant find his daughter, he doesnt know where his daughter is.Eventually, Clemente discovered that she was in a shelter. She was allowed to telephone him once a week, but not return to his care; his voice broke as he described her as an angel from God.Immigration is a complicated challenge, but ripping families apart isnt the solution. Perhaps the best approach is to help improve security in Central America so that people like Clemente need not flee. Some anti-gang initiatives there have been very successful in reducing murder rates that drive migration.If it were peaceful, Id like to be back there where I grew up, said Clemente, who received help from Immigrant Families Together in his quest to reunite with his daughter. Id love to be in the land where I was born.The Texas Civil Rights Project found that at least 272 adults were separated from a child family member in the six months after Trump supposedly ended family separation. The youngest to be separated was an 8-month-old girl taken from her mother.Officials are less likely now to separate parents from children, but they continue to separate grandparents from grandchildren, siblings from siblings. The day I spoke with Cordova, the volunteer, he was helping two brothers from Honduras who had no other family left: Junior, 21, had raised Andy, 7.When gang members brutally beat up Junior for refusing to sell drugs for them, he fled with Andy to the United States  and officials separated them on arrival six months ago. So little Andy is now in a shelter, apart from the only person who has loved and protected him.I see this all the time, Cordova told me. They cry with me, I cry with them.Finally, there was a break in Clementes case. On Wednesday night, the authorities released Wendy to him. After six months apart, they had a teary reunion.I thought I might never get her back again, Clemente said. I am very thankful.So, yes, President Trump, youre right that theres an emergency at the border. Its a humanitarian crisis of family separation that you helped create.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Nicholas Kristof has been a columnist for The Times since 2001. He has won two Pulitzer Prizes, for his coverage of China and of the genocide in Darfur.You can sign up for his free, twice-weeklyemail newsletterand follow him onInstagram.  @NickKristof  Facebook Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Edward WongWASHINGTON  To compete with a more assertive China, the United States should invest in alliances and multilateral institutions, which President Trump and his administration have rejected or undermined, a report issued Tuesday by prominent scholars and former top White House, State Department and trade officials working on China concluded.In addition, the Trump administration should take firm stands against China on its malign policies, from mercantilist measures to military expansionism, but should avoid overreacting to hard-line actions by President Xi Jinping and the Communist Party while searching for areas of cooperation with Beijing, the report said.The United States and China find their bilateral relationship at a dangerous crossroads, said the report, issued by the Asia Society and the 21st Century China Center at the University of California, San Diego. The United States and China are on a collision course. The foundations of good will that took decades to build are rapidly breaking down.The report was overseen by Orville Schell of the Asia Society and Susan L. Shirk, a professor at the University of California, San Diego, who worked on China policy as a deputy assistant secretary of state under President Bill Clinton. The two spent Monday in Washington briefing policymakers at the White House and State Department on what they call smart competition.The report is the second written by the group of China experts. The 17 authors are all on this escalator away from the idea that engagement is functional and that things were generally heading in a convergent direction despite setbacks, Mr. Schell said in an interview. Thats a startling change that has pulled the floor out from underneath many of our old assumptions.Ms. Shirk said the group agreed that it was good to get tougher with China and call out the Chinese policies that are not keeping with global norms and detrimental to U.S. values. But, she said, we feel more strongly that the Trump administration is going about this in the wrong way. She added, The way theyre going about it is whack em and push back for the sake of pushing back.The group includes Charlene Barshefsky, former United States trade representative; Winston Lord, former ambassador to China; and Evan S. Medeiros, former senior director for Asia in President Barack Obamas National Security Council.The report, titled Course Correction, noted that the current period of tensions was the worst in 40 years, even as the two nations economic and military capabilities have become more evenly matched, making the dangers of overt conflict far greater.The Trump administration has exacerbated these dangers by undervaluing two of the United States greatest advantages: our network of allies and partners and the global multilateral institutions on which we all depend, the report said, adding that such moves have tarnished the U.S. image as a beacon of liberal values on the world stage.The authors pointed to Mr. Trumps abandonment of the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a trade agreement that Mr. Obama had helped forge to push China to conform to stricter norms in trade relations. Eleven nations  including allies Japan, Canada and Australia  renegotiated the agreement without the United States last year and are using it to address Mr. Trumps protectionist policies as well as those of China.As for Mr. Trumps trade war, his signature policy on China, the authors advised shifting the focus from tariffs to forcing Beijing to change industrial policy measures that violate international norms. These include state subsidies, forced technology transfer, intellectual property theft, cyberespionage and the barring of foreign companies from fair market access.The United States should also work with other nations to strengthen World Trade Organization rules and punish China for violations, the report said.On the security front, the United States must continue to invest in its East Asian alliances, especially Japan, even though Mr. Trump constantly questions expenditures on those kinds of military commitments, the report said.The authors list a few areas of potential cooperation between the United States and China, including global public health, climate change and preventing nuclear proliferation.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThree freshman lawmakers shatter stereotypes as they make waves.By Michelle CottleMs. Cottle is a member of the editorial board.Long story short, I need you to run for office.  Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, then a Democratic representative-elect from New York, in a Nov. 17 conference call encouraging primary challengers to fellow Democrats deemed too moderate.Its all about the Benjamins, baby  Representative Ilhan Omar, Democratic freshman from Minnesota, in a Feb. 10 tweet suggesting that Americas Middle East policy is driven by political donations from pro-Israel lobbyists.Were gonna impeach the [expletive]!  Representative Rashida Tlaib, Democratic freshman from Michigan, at a swearing-in celebration on Jan. 3.You have to hand it to the first-year Democratic women of the House: They dont hold back.While the new Democratic majority is sprawling and diverse, a coterie of outspoken, progressive women has seized center stage  and not always in a good way. Even as they deliver a jolt of energy, the freshman Furies, as they have been dubbed, are inclined to do and say impolitic things that give their colleagues agita. Fans find the newbies unconventional style refreshing. Skeptics find them reckless and fret that they will pull the party in an unpalatable direction, ideologically, stylistically or both.Who knows how the rookies will affect the Democratic brand. But already theyre doing their best to dismantle one of the most tiresome and inaccurate stereotypes in politics: that women lawmakers are inherently more civil, more collaborative, less power-hungry and less personally ambitious than men.The idea that women are the key to a kinder and smoother-running Congress has been popular for as long as women have had a meaningful presence there. More than two decades ago, Senator Barbara Mikulski, long known as the dean of Senate women, began organizing monthly, bipartisan, women-only dinners in an effort to create a zone of civility. The concept of a nurturing, solutions-oriented sisterhood has endured, often fostered by the women themselves.Hillary Clinton sold this argument in her 2016 campaign, telling Time, I just think women in general are better listeners, are more collegial, more open to new ideas and how to make things work in a way that looks for win-win outcomes.In the Age of Trump, the idea of women as a civilizing force in some ways holds even fiercer appeal. Last cycle, a historic number of women won office on the promise of combating the toxic culture fueled by the presidents lying and bullying. In January, Representative Susan Wild, a Democratic freshman from Pennsylvania, told Politico: I believe that women, whether its in our DNA or a learned behavior, are natural facilitators. We spend our lifetime in our families solving problems, at least those of us who are mothers. And I think that maternal instinct will hopefully operate to help us work for the common good. How uplifting. How stirring.How absurd.We can debate the leadership, communication and negotiating styles of women vs. men. But when it comes to the self-selecting gals who elbow their way into high office, the idea that theyre less ragingly ambitious, more conciliatory or less partisan is insulting and contrary to the facts.Look at the Republican Party in recent years. For every low-key moderate like Representative Elise Stefanik and Senator Susan Collins, there is a Senator Marsha Blackburn and a Representative Liz Cheney  ladies every bit as edgy, combative and partisan as any guy. Looking for even more edge? We offer Sarah Palin.The top tier of Democratic women features plenty of ambition and partisanship as well. Nancy Pelosi? Elizabeth Warren? Hillary Clinton?Jennifer Lawless, a professor at the University of Virginia and an expert on women in politics, was a co-author of a 2016 examination of the prevailing view that women are more likely than men to move forward a legislative process that has so long been plagued by polarization and partisan warfare. Testing the thesis in a variety of ways, the researchers came up with no evidence for it whatsoever, no matter where we looked.Similarly, after analyzing the legislative habits of Congress members, a 2016 study by the National Bureau of Economic Research found no support for the hypothesis that women are inherently more willing to compromise.The new Democratic women representatives have wasted no time making clear that, when displeased, theyre willing to call out both the opposition and their own teammates. A heartbeat after being elected, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez and Ms. Tlaib backed a crusade by liberal activists looking to enlist primary opponents for more establishment Democrats. As the new majority was settling in, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez joined a sit-in at Ms. Pelosis offices in support of a Green New Deal. This month she chided Democrats for what she saw as an overreaction to Ms. Omars flirtation with anti-Semitic stereotypes.Ms. Tlaib, responding to Ms. Pelosis assertion that, absent bipartisan support, it was just not worth it to impeach the president, announced that she would be plowing ahead with an impeachment resolution to be filed soon.In her first floor speech, Ayanna Pressley, the freshman Democratic representative from Massachusetts, railed against Mr. Trump, whom she dismissed as the occupant of the White House, breaching House rules and earning her a warning from the presiding Democrat. These hard-charging women also give the lie to the idea that, unlike men, they have no interest in the spotlight  that they are content to keep their heads down and get the work done. With their social media celebrity and assertive style, they recognize the value of branding  even if it rubs colleagues the wrong way, which it often does.This is not to say that women dont bring anything different to the political table. They bring fresh perspectives and priorities and, often, different work styles. But the notion that they are operationally or characterologically  perhaps even morally  superior to men, is dangerous. While it may make for an appealing narrative, it sets up unrealistic expectations. The public is then dismayed when a woman takes a self-protective vote or comes across as nakedly ambitious or is rumored to be a mean boss. So lets hear it for the freshmen Furies in all their abrasive, ambitious, in-your-face glory. If they can chip away at the pretty little myth of women as political saviors, they will have done a service to us all.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.An earlier version of this editorial misstated the academic affiliation of Jennifer Lawless. She is a professor of politics at the University of Virginia. She no longer director of the Women and Politics Institute at American University.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byOn WashingtonBy Carl HulseWASHINGTON  Was this the shutdown to end all shutdowns?The answer could be yes. The toll exacted on government operations and federal employees by the record 35-day stalemate  not to mention the political costs to those in the White House and on Capitol Hill  was so punishing that it is giving momentum to a longstanding call to prohibit the government disruptions that have become a regular facet of Washington hardball.Shutting down the government should be as off limits in budget negotiations as chemical warfare is in real warfare, Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, said on Friday.He was not alone in expressing those sentiments. Members of both parties said it was past time to enact legislation that would essentially mean the government would remain open at existing spending levels when an impasse such as the fight over the border wall was reached, rather than shuttering parts or all of the government. Thats an outcome that virtually everyone agrees is costly, unnecessary and even embarrassing.This never should have happened, said Senator Lisa Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, speaking for many.Veterans of past shutdowns have come to learn that there are few, if any, winners in the end and that closing the government has not proved effective as a negotiating strategy for those who use the government as a lever to press their case. It didnt work for Newt Gingrich in the 1990s, for Senator Ted Cruz of Texas and House conservatives in 2013 or for Senator Chuck Schumer of New York and fellow Democrats early in 2018 when they relented on a shutdown after just three days.Government workers are penalized through no fault of their own, constituents are inconvenienced, the nations image is hurt and those responsible for running the government look inept, irresponsible and unwilling to reach an accommodation. The tension in this shutdown was evident in the internal finger-pointing that broke out among Republicans as workers missed two paychecks and airports began to struggle with the absences of security workers and flight controllers.Ive said repeatedly throughout this process that government shutdowns are a bad idea, said Senator Rob Portman, Republican of Ohio. They hurt federal employees and their families, disrupt critical government services and increase the cost to taxpayers. This shutdown confirmed what we already knew about shutdowns. Lets do something about it now while the pain and inefficiency of this moment is fresh on our minds.Mr. Portman has for years sponsored legislation to prevent shutdowns, and he introduced the measure again this month as the government limped along partly closed and federal employees lined up for food assistance and other aid.Under his plan, which has 18 co-sponsors and rising, funding at existing levels would continue for agencies covered by an appropriations measure that was not signed into law by the beginning of the fiscal year on Oct. 1, preventing any lapse that incites a shutdown. To spur a resolution, funding would be reduced by 1 percent after 120 days if no agreement is reached and by 1 percent more every 90 days.It is one of these moments where after many years of us trying to get something passed that ends the shutdown, I think there is support coalescing around a legislative response, Mr. Portman said.Senator Mark Warner, the Virginia Democrat whose state is home to tens of thousands of federal employees and contractors, introduced his own proposal, partly with the idea of shaming his colleagues and the Trump administration into avoiding such confrontations.Searching for a bill title that would deliver the message, he and his staff came up with Stop Shutdowns Transferring Unnecessary Pain and Inflicting Damage in the Coming Years, otherwise known as the Stop Stupidity Act. In the event of funding showdowns, his approach would be to maintain spending for all but the legislative branch and the White House.More than a little bit of common sense tells me that we wouldnt be here 35 days into this shutdown if all our staffs were experiencing the same kind of shortfall and economic distress that 800,000 of our fellow federal workers experienced, he said on the Senate floor.Mr. Warner acknowledged that his title was somewhat tongue in cheek and that he would be receptive to making changes in the interest of enacting a law that would prevent recurrences of the last weeks.The final language in any deal that comes out three weeks from now should put strong provisions and strong penalties in place to prevent this tactic from being used by either party or any White House or Congress in the future, he said, a view shared by Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa.The final package should also end government shutdowns once and for all, Mr. Grassley said.In the House, Speaker Nancy Pelosi also welcomed the idea on Friday, saying in a meeting with news columnists that she wanted to explore the possibility of legislation that would serve as a shutdown prevention act.Despite widespread sentiment against shutdowns in Congress, there could be opposition. Some lawmakers might not want to surrender potential leverage in the spending wars. There could be resistance from others who dont like the concept of automatic spending authorization, arguing that it gives up a fundamental power of Congress. Democrats have feared that automatic spending cuts could be a backdoor way for Republicans to cut money for federal programs. President Trump might be reluctant to sign a bill that includes such provisions, though he has now experienced such backlash to the shutdown and might prefer another way to circumvent Congress, such as declaring a national emergency to build the wall if negotiations fall through.Congress will still have its opportunities for brinkmanship such as the need to raise the debt limit, though House Democrats have already taken steps to make that more automatic as well, in an attempt to reduce the threat to economic stability  and eliminate a politically charged vote.Whether they can succeed remains to be seen, but Mr. Portman, Mr. Alexander and others said they were determined over the next three weeks to press the case for permanent protection against shutdowns.We accepted the idea that shutting down the government is an acceptable bargaining chip in a budget negotiation and it should never, ever be, and we should resolve that that should never, ever happen, Mr. Alexander said.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byAfrican-American lives in the city, a fictional 1970s rock band, an exhibition of tiny books, a memoir of solitary confinement and more.We take the weekend to highlight some of the recent books coverage in The Times:On our cover this week, two new books about African-American lives in the city  two cities, in particular: Chicago and Cleveland. Alex Kotlowitzs An American Summer: Love and Death in Chicago and Kyle Swensons Good Kids, Bad City: A Story of Race and Wrongful Conviction in America are also both, broadly speaking, about decaying infrastructure, political corruption, segregation, racism, gun violence and incompetence in the criminal justice system.Kotlowitz is also on the podcast this week, discussing An American Summer, and John Lanchester visits to talk about his new dystopian novel, The Wall.Have our politics become impossible to satirize in the age of Trump? Ben Greenman explores.Daisy Jones & The Six, a novel about a fictional 1970s rock band, is presented almost entirely as an oral history, and it reads like the transcript of a particularly juicy episode of VH1s Behind the Music.The crime writer Donna Leon answers our By the Book questions.The novelist and Iraq war veteran Kevin Powers makes a case for the unmatched moral clarity of Slaughterhouse-Five by Kurt Vonnegut, 50 years on.Dwight Garner reviews Solitary, Albert Woodfoxs harrowing memoir about the more than 40 years he spent in solitary confinement for a crime he didnt commit. If the ending of this book does not leave you with tears pooling down in your clavicles, Garner writes, you are a stronger person than I am.Parul Sehgal writes about Survival Math, Mitchell S. Jacksons memoir about growing up black in Portland, Ore., a story he interweaves with the stories of his friends and relatives.Jennifer Szalai reviews David Wallace-Wellss The Uninhabitable Earth, which expands on his viral article in New York magazine about the climate chaos that will increasingly take over our lives.We dived into the archives to find some of our most scathing reviews of classic books. We called Sister Carrie a book one can get along very well without reading, dismissed Lolita as dull, dull, dull and had nothing nice to say about Howards End. (What can we say? We dont always get it right.) A new exhibit of miniature books is on display at the Grolier Club in New York City. One of them is so small that it appears as an imperceptible black speck. Sarah Lyall reports.Silvana Paternostro talks about Solitude & Company, her oral history of the Nobel Prize winners life before and after he found fame. And Netflix announced that it had acquired the rights to develop One Hundred Years of Solitude into a series. It will be the first time the novel is adapted for the screen.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe president is facing a level of intraparty criticism that has no recent precedent.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday.Partisanship is a helluva drug (to steal a line from the political scientist Brendan Nyhan). Well into 1973  after Watergate had already become a major scandal  a large majority of Republicans continued to support President Richard Nixon. Party elites, like Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush, supported him as well.Democrats, of course, have their own version of partisan loyalty in the face of scandal, even if the details are quite different. President Bill Clinton had an exploitative affair with a young White House intern and lied about it under oath, yet most Democratic voters and party officials stood strongly behind him. [Listen to The Argument podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]Im not running through this history to make moral judgments. My point this morning is different: It is extremely unusual for a president of the United States to face serious, sustained criticism from members of his own party.And yet the criticism of President Trump from Republicans just keeps coming. Members of Congress have defied him recently on foreign policy. Senior Republicans publicly turned down the chief of staff job. The secretary of defense, in his resignation letter, laid out a point-by-point rejection of Trumps worldview. And now Mitt Romney  a former Republican presidential nominee who was recently elected as a senator  has written a harsh op-ed in The Washington Post. The Trump presidency made a deep descent in December, Romney wrote. To reassume our leadership in world politics, we must repair failings in our politics at home. That project begins, of course, with the highest office once again acting to inspire and unite us.No, congressional Republicans still arent doing nearly as much as they should be to constrain Trump and hold him accountable for his behavior. But they are forcing him to face more intraparty criticism than any president has in a very long time.Programming note. Starting Monday, the name of this newsletter will change. Instead of being called Opinion Today, the newsletter will bear my name.The back story: When I began writing it in September 2016, this newsletter was one of only a few produced by the Opinion section  and I was planning to write it only temporarily. Thus the name Opinion Today. But 28 months later, Im still writing it and enjoying it, thanks in no small part to the interactions with all of you.And the Opinion section now has several newsletters: There is a weekly roundup of standout work, called Sunday Best, as well as the weekly Op-Docs newsletter. My colleague Frank Bruni has started a weekly newsletter. And Nick Kristof continues to write a twice-weekly newsletter.The name change of this newsletter doesnt require any changes by you. It will continue to arrive in your inbox five days a week, with my thoughts on the news and reading suggestions from around the web  as well as links to all Times Opinion pieces published that day.In addition to a different name, the newsletter will also have a slightly different design  one I like because its a little bit better organized than the current design. As always, I welcome your feedback, at leonhardt@nytimes.com.You can join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. I am also writing a daily email newsletter and invite you to subscribe.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion).David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt  Facebook Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe Daily NewsletterWaiting for the Mueller report.By Michael Barbaro[Update: Robert Mueller has submitted his full report on President Trump and Russia to the attorney general. Read more here.]It could be any day now.After nearly two years, 34 indictments or guilty pleas, and countless angry presidential tweets, the Mueller report, we are told, could be winding down.When Robert Mueller finally sends his findings to the attorney general, what will we do? It depends, in part, on when that happens. For some big stories that have broken outside our typical production schedule  like on a Friday  weve put out special editions, a kind of emergency show. We did that when President Trump fired Steve Bannon, his closest White House adviser; when Trumps national security adviser Michael Flynn pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I.; and when the president bragged to Russian diplomats about firing F.B.I. director James Comey, saying it would take the heat off the Russia investigation.We dont yet know when the report will land, but weve approached this story feeling that our greatest responsibility is to set the right expectations. Thats why we did something weve never done before: a series of explanatory episodes designed to set the table for the Mueller report  how its release could happen (or not happen), what it might conclude (or not conclude), and what it would trigger next (or not trigger next).The series is called What to Expect When Youre Expecting (the Mueller Report), a nod to Heidi Murkoff and Sharon Mazels ubiquitous parenting guide. It began with an explanation of rules surrounding the reports handoff from the special counsel to the attorney general. It then explored Muellers options for recommending charges against President Trump, and concluded with the role of Congresss oversight committees.The worst thing we, as journalists, can do in moments like this is leave you unprepared to process a historic moment. We hope that if you listen to the series, youll feel ready for what the next few days, weeks and months will bring.Talk to Michael on Twitter: @mikiebarb.Theres an entire generation of people who have been exposed to radical extremist politics online. Kevin Roose on how the internet played a role in the New Zealand mosque attacks.Boeing wanted to avoid expensive training for pilots flying its new line of airplanes. Then, two of those planes crashed.The Trump of the Tropics met with President Trump at the White House this week. Who is Brazils far-right president, Jair Bolsonaro, and how did he come to power?A second person appears to have been cured of H.I.V., something that scientists had almost given up on. We talk to an activist about what this means, and about his own journey with H.I.V.It took New Zealand just six days to ban assault rifles after a gunman killed 50 people in the mosque shootings last week.When news broke earlier this month that a second patient had been cured of H.I.V., we knew we wanted to do a story about the three decades it took to get to this point. As we explored that history, producer Jonathan Wolfe called up Timothy Ray Brown, known as the Berlin patient, who, until recently, was the only person to ever be cured. Heres an excerpt from their conversation:When asked what it would be like to hear that a cure for H.I.V. had been found at last, AIDS activist Peter Staley described a scene from the movie Longtime Companion: Its like a big gay disco. But its everybody weve lost, and theyre just celebrating. It might be like that.That moment from Thursdays episode struck a chord with Stacy Brink, a listener from Charlotte, N.C. And her response struck a chord with us. As I listened to Mr. Staley, I imagined hearing my fathers voice. My father who died of AIDS in 1986 when I was 7 years old. My father who loved Billy Joel and made the best French toast. My father in his blue robe. My father who I was unable to hug or kiss or lie next to because the doctors feared I would be contaminated. Thank you, Mr. Staley, for fighting and for your courage. I look forward to dancing with my dad at the gay disco when we finally have a cure.For the biggest stories of our time, told by New York Times journalists each weekday, listen to The Daily. You can find it at nytimes.com/thedaily or wherever you get your podcasts.Have thoughts about the show? Tell us what you think at thedaily@nytimes.com.Love podcasts? Join The New York Times Podcast Club on Facebook.Want to get this by email? Heres the sign-up.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily CochraneWASHINGTON  Republican leaders scrambled to keep rank-and-file members in line ahead of a House vote on Tuesday to kill President Trumps declaration of a national emergency on the Mexican border, as Democrats appealed to Republicans to protect Congresss constitutional power to control federal spending.The Houses vote on a declaration of disapproval will force Republicans to choose between the congressional prerogative over federal spending established in the Constitution and a president determined to go around the legislative branch to secure funds for a border wall that Congress has refused to grant.Many Republicans were clearly uneasy with the presidents action, but few were ready to declare their support for legislation overturning it.On Monday, Senator Thom Tillis, Republican of North Carolina, became the second Republican senator to say he would support the Democratic resolution.There is no intellectual honesty in now turning around and arguing that theres an imaginary asterisk attached to executive overreach  that its acceptable for my party but not thy party, Mr. Tillis wrote in an opinion article published Monday in The Washington Post.Last week, Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, said she would support a resolution, barring any extraneous additions. Other Republicans were holding their fire.I wish it wasnt necessary for Mr. Trump to have declared a national emergency, said Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, arguing that the issue could have been avoided if Democrats had agreed to more funding for physical border barriers.I think its a shame that what should be a nonpartisan issue has turned into obviously a very partisan issue, he added. Im still considering my alternatives.The resolution is expected to sail through the House on Democratic votes, but significant Republican defections would give it momentum in the Senate and could raise the specter  however remote  that Congress could override Mr. Trumps promised veto, should the resolution reach his desk.Democrats framed Tuesdays vote as a referendum on protecting the separation of powers and Congresss constitutional right to determine federal spending levels  an argument that appealed to several conservatives in both chambers.Representative Joaquin Castro, Democrat of Texas and the author of the resolution, warned Monday at a news conference that without congressional interference, Mr. Trump would try this again on other issues, while Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California expressed confidence that her Republican colleagues belief in the separation of powers would push them to support the one-page resolution.This isnt about the border, she said. This is about the Constitution of the United States.But Democrats were also making a less lofty case to wavering Republicans. They circulated a list of all of the possible military construction projects in each district that could lose money shifted instead to Mr. Trumps wall.Several lawsuits have already been filed to challenge the merits of the declaration, but the easiest way for Congress to counter it is through the resolution of disapproval, authorized by the National Emergencies Act of 1976. Once it passes the House, the Senate is required under the law to take it up within 18 days.On Monday, Mr. Trump trained his attention on the Senate, where only four Republican votes are needed to pass the measure, should Democrats remain united, as expected. The president warned Republicans, via Twitter, not to fall into the Democrats trap of Open Borders and Crime!Several conservative senators have expressed concern that Mr. Trumps declaration is setting a precedent that could be used by a Democratic president determined to secure funds that Congress will not give.Others have balked at the prospect of siphoning money away from military projects. Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa  who said he was leaning no on voting for the resolution  suggested that Congress review the power to declare national emergencies granted to the president under the National Emergencies Act.Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, called Mr. Trumps declaration unnecessary, unwise and inconsistent with the Constitution. Yet he declined to say how he would vote on a resolution ending it, telling reporters, Im going to wait and see what the resolution says.In the House, top Republicans were urging their members to focus on what they say is a legitimate need for border security money and the precedent set by other presidents who have declared their own national emergencies, according to one Republican aide.Only one House Republican, Representative Justin Amash of Michigan, has signed on to the resolution to block the declaration, scorning the idea that congressional Republicans who attacked President Barack Obamas use of executive powers now cry out for a king to usurp legislative powers.Top Republicans, including Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the minority leader, said they were confident that there will be enough support to prevent the two-thirds majority needed to override the veto. But Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the Republican whip, and other members of his vote-counting team were set to lobby for votes against the resolution during a session on Monday night.Democrats argument was buoyed by two letters from more than 25 former Republican lawmakers and nearly 60 former senior national security officials, who appealed to Congress to end the national emergency declaration.It has always been a Republican fundamental principle that no matter how strong our policy preferences, no matter how deep our loyalties to presidents or party leaders, in order to remain a constitutional republic, we must act within the borders of the Constitution, wrote the former members of Congress, including Senators John C. Danforth, Chuck Hagel, Olympia J. Snowe and Richard G. Lugar, who implored Republicans to protect Congresss constitutionally mandated power of the purse.The security officials said there is neither a documented terrorist or national security emergency at the southern border nor an emergency related to violent crime.Mr. Trumps assertions are rebutted not just by the public record, but by his agencies own official data, documents and statements, the officials, including Madeleine Albright, the former secretary of state, and John O. Brennan, the former C.I.A. director, said in their declaration.Under no plausible assessment of the evidence is there a national emergency today, they wrote.This isnt about Trump or the wall, this is beyond that, said former Representative Mickey Edwards, Republican of Oklahoma and the author of the letter to conservative lawmakers. This is about the constitutional obligations of Congress and how much Congress is going to surrender those duties.If Congress gives up the power of deciding what money you can spend and where, he added, it has basically surrendered its entire constitutional obligation.Members of the House Appropriations Committee will hold a hearing on Wednesday to examine the effect of the declaration on military construction and readiness, and members of the House Judiciary Committee will hold a hearing on Thursday in part to examine Mr. Trumps use of powers under the National Emergencies Act.If were going to let the president, any president, on a whim declare emergencies simply because he or she cant get their way in Congress, we have fundamentally changed the building blocks, the strong, proud building blocks that the Founding Fathers put in place, said Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, in a speech on the Senate floor.Katie Benner, Catie Edmondson and Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byTheir incomes are flat. Their wealth is down. And Washington is aggravating future threats. By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistFor Americans under the age of 40, the 21st century has resembled one long recession.I realize that may sound like an exaggeration, given that the economy has now been growing for almost a decade. But the truth is that younger Americans have not benefited much.Look at incomes, for starters. People between the ages of 25 and 34 were earning slightly less in 2017 than people in that same age group had been in 2000:The wealth trends look even worse. Since the centurys start, median net worth has plummeted for every age group under 55: Why is this happening? The main reason is a lack of economic dynamism. Not as many new companies have been forming since 2000  for reasons that experts dont totally understand  and existing companies have been expanding at a slower rate. (The pace of job cuts has also fallen, which is why the unemployment rate has stayed low.) Rather than starting new projects, companies are sitting on big piles of cash or distributing it to their shareholders.This loss of dynamism hurts millennials and the younger Generation Z, even as baby boomers are often doing O.K. Because the layoff rate has declined since 2000, most older workers have been able to hold on to their jobs. For those who are retired, their income  through a combination of Social Security and 401(k)s  still outpaces inflation on average. But many younger workers are struggling to launch themselves into good-paying careers. They then lack the money to buy a first home or begin investing in the stock market. Yes, older workers face their own challenges, like age discrimination. Over all, though, the generational gap in both income and wealth is growing.[Sign up for David Leonhardts daily newsletter  with commentary on the news and reading suggestions from around the web.]Given these trends, youd think the government would be trying to help the young. But its not. If anything, federal and state policy is going in the other direction. Medicare and Social Security have been spared from cuts. Programs that benefit younger workers and families have not. The biggest example is higher education. Over the past decade, states have cut college funding by an average of 16 percent per student. Its a shocking form of economic myopia. In response, tuition has risen, and students have taken on more debt. Worst of all, many students attend colleges with high dropout rates and end up with debt but no degree.And as badly as the government is treating the young today, the future looks even more ominous. First, the national debt, while manageable now, is on pace to soar. The primary cause is the cost of health care: Most Americans receive far more in Medicare benefits than they paid in Medicare taxes. The Trump tax cut also plays a role. It is increasing the debt  and it mostly benefits older, affluent households. Second, the warming planet is likely to cause terrible damage and bring huge costs. Young Americans favor aggressive action, now, to slow climate change. But the Republican Party  which wins elections with strong support from older voters  has vetoed any such action. As a result, greenhouse gases keep spewing into the atmosphere, and the climate crisis is likely to be far worse than it needs to be. Todays young Americans will be left to suffer the consequences and bear the costs.Last week, one of those young Americans  somebody who qualifies as an older millennial  announced that he was running for president: the 37-year-old mayor of South Bend, Ind., Pete Buttigieg. A Navy veteran and Rhodes scholar whos been praised by Barack Obama, Buttigieg (BOOT-edge-edge) is a rising star in Democratic politics. But of course he is a long shot to win the nomination. He is the mayor of a moderate-size city, after all.And yet I think his candidacy is important, because it has the potential to influence the entire campaign. Buttigieg kicked off his run by talking about intergenerational justice and made clear that he would focus sharply on the future. After we spoke on Friday, I looked at my notes and discovered he hadnt said Trump once.During our conversation, I asked him how he hoped to win over older Americans  who, to their credit, vote at much higher rates than the young  and he told me an intriguing story. When he first ran for mayor of South Bend in 2011, he had the money to conduct only one poll. In it, his team asked voters how they would feel about having such a young mayor. The group most likely to see it as an advantage were the oldest voters.Many of the people who respond most positively to a moral message about the future are older people, he said. The American story is one of making sure that each generation is better off than the last. I dont want my generation to be the first not to enjoy that. But I also think older generations dont want to be the ones to cause that.There are some unavoidable trade-offs between the young and the old: A dollar spent on Medicare is unavailable for universal pre-K. But the countrys biggest economic problems arent about hordes of greedy old people profiting off the young. Theyre about an economy that showers much of its bounty on the already affluent, at the expense of most Americans  and of our future. The young pay the biggest price for these inequities.Thats a vital subject for the 2020 campaign, whoever the leading candidates end up being.Sign up for David Leonhardts daily newsletter with commentary on the news and reading suggestions from around the web.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt  Facebook Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Glenn ThrushWASHINGTON  In the middle of his crowded dinner in Buenos Aires with President Xi Jinping of China, President Trump leaned across the table, pointed to Robert Lighthizer, the United States trade representative whose skepticism of China runs deep, and declared, Thats my negotiator!He then turned to Peter Navarro, his even more hawkish trade adviser, adding, And thats my tough guy! according to aides with knowledge of the exchange.Now, with talks between China and the United States set to begin this week in Beijing, Mr. Lighthizer, aided by Mr. Navarro, faces the assignment of a lifetime: redefining the trade relationship between the worlds two largest economies by Mr. Trumps March 2 deadline to reach an agreement.And he must do it in a way that tilts the balance of power toward the United States. His approach will have significant ramifications for American companies, workers and consumers whose fortunes, whether Mr. Trump likes it or not, are increasingly tied to China.First, however, Mr. Lighthizer will need to keep a mercurial president from wavering in the face of queasy financial markets, which have suffered their steepest annual decline since 2008. Despite his declaration that trade wars are easy to win and his recent boast that he is a Tariff Man, Mr. Trump is increasingly eager to reach a deal that will help calm the markets, which he views as a political electrocardiogram of his presidency.Mr. Trump has repeatedly told his advisers that Mr. Xi is someone with whom he can cut a big deal, according to people who have spoken with the president. On Saturday, Mr. Trump called Mr. Xi to discuss the status of talks, tweeting afterward that good progress was being made. Deal is moving along very well, Mr. Trump said.The administration has tried to force China to change its ways with stiff tariffs on $250 billion worth of Chinese products, restrictions on Chinese investment in the United States and threats of additional levies on another $267 billion worth of goods. China has responded with its own tit-for-tat tariffs on American goods. But over a steak dinner during the Group of 20 summit meeting in Argentina, Mr. Xi and Mr. Trump agreed to a 90-day truce and to work toward an agreement that Mr. Trump said could lead to one of the largest deals ever made.Its not some subtle shift; Trump has flipped since September, said Derek Scissors, who studies Chinas economy for the American Enterprise Institute. He went from saying how he was going to slap tariffs on everything to all this talk about making the greatest deal ever.Mr. Lighthizer  whose top deputy will meet with Chinese officials this week ahead of more high-level talks in February  has played down any differences with Mr. Trump and views his role as ultimately executing the directive of his boss. But the trade representative, who declined to be interviewed, has told friends and associates that he is intent on preventing the president from being talked into accepting empty promises like temporary increases in soybean or beef purchases.Mr. Lighthizer, 71, is pushing for substantive changes, such as forcing China to end its practice of requiring American companies to hand over valuable technology as a condition of doing business there. But after 40 years of dealing with China and watching it dangle promises that do not materialize, Mr. Lighthizer remains deeply skeptical of Beijing and has warned Mr. Trump that the United States may need to exert more pressure through additional tariffs in order to win true concessions.When Mr. Lighthizer senses that anyone  even Mr. Trump  might be going a little soft on China, he opens a paper-clipped manila folder he totes around and brandishes a single-page, easy-reading chart that lists decades of failed trade negotiations with Beijing, according to administration officials.Bobs attitude toward China is very simple. He wants them to surrender, said William A. Reinsch, a former federal trade official who met him three decades ago when Mr. Lighthizer was a young aide for former Senator Bob Dole of Kansas. His negotiating strategy is simple too. He basically gives them a list of things he wants them to do and says, Fix it now.Mr. Trumps selection of Mr. Lighthizer last month to lead the talks initially spooked markets, which viewed the China skeptics appointment as an ominous sign. It also annoyed Chinese officials, who had been talking with the Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin, a more moderate voice on trade and the primary point of contact for Liu He, Chinas top trade negotiator. Mr. Mnuchin has urged the president to avoid a protracted trade war, even if that entails reaching an interim agreement that leaves some issues unresolved.Mr. Mnuchin, who attended the G-20 dinner, helped Mr. Trump craft an upbeat assessment declaring the Buenos Aires meeting highly successful in the presidential limousine back to the airport, according to a senior administration official.The disparate views among Mr. Trumps top trade advisers have prompted sparring  both publicly and behind the scenes.In late 2017, when Mr. Lighthizer grew concerned that Mr. Mnuchin and Wilbur Ross, the commerce secretary, were wading too far into China matters, he enlisted Rob Porter, the presidents staff secretary at the time, to persuade Mr. Trump to draft a document designating Mr. Lighthizer the main trade emissary to China, according to a person who has seen the letter. Mr. Lighthizer has never used the document to defend his position, the person said, but he considers it an insurance policy of sorts.During an Oval Office meeting with the trade team the fall of 2017, Mr. Lighthizer accused Mr. Mnuchin and Gary D. Cohn, the former National Economic Council director, of bad-mouthing him to free-trade Republican senators.The argument grew so heated that the White House chief of staff, John F. Kelly, quickly pulled the combatants into the nearby Roosevelt Room and away from the president, where the argument raged on for a few more minutes, according to two witnesses.Emily Davis, a spokeswoman for the United States trade representative, disputed the account.Mr. Lighthizer has since worked to increase his own face time with Mr. Trump. He has joked to colleagues that he has more influence with Mr. Trump during winter months because he is able to hitch a ride on Air Force One during the presidents flights down to Mar-a-Lago, which is several miles from Mr. Lighthizers own $2.3 million waterfront condo in Palm Beach, Fla.He used that access to argue to Mr. Trump that the United States has never had more leverage to extract structural reforms on intellectual property, forced transfer of technology from American companies and cybercrime. But while Mr. Trump has jumped at the chance to claim victory in changing Chinas ways, experts say that what Mr. Lighthizer is demanding would require significant shifts in how Beijings central government and its manufacturing sector coordinate their activities, and that might simply not be possible in the short term.Good luck with that, Mr. Scissors said.Those who know Mr. Lighthizer say he will try to force concessions through a combination of pressure tactics, like tariffs, and public condemnation. Mr. Lighthizer  who described his own negotiating style as knowing where the leverage is during a 1984 interview  typically presents few specific demands during initial talks while publicly bashing efforts by the other side.He used that approach during recent talks with Canada and Mexico to revise the North American Free Trade Agreement, criticizing foreign counterparts as intransigent and characterizing complaints by American businesses as pure greed.Mr. Lighthizers unsparing view of China comes, in part, from his childhood in Ashtabula, Ohio, an industrial and shipping town on the Great Lakes hit by the offshoring of steel and chemical production. For much of his career, Mr. Lighthizer was a lonely protectionist voice in a Republican Party dominated by free traders, alternating between jobs in government and a lucrative private law career representing large American corporations like United States Steel in trade cases against China.Mr. Lighthizer found his way into Mr. Trumps orbit through his work in the steel industry, where he gained prominence by filing lawsuits accusing Japan and China of dumping metals into the United States, in violation of trade laws. In 2011, Mr. Lighthizer caught Mr. Trumps eye with an opinion piece in The Washington Times, in which he defended Mr. Trumps approach to China as consistent with conservative ideology and compared the future president to Republican icons like Ronald Reagan.Taciturn in public and self-deprecating in private, Mr. Lighthizer sees himself as a serious player on the world stage: Two recent guests to Mr. Lighthizers Georgetown townhouse were greeted by the stern visage of their host staring down at them from an oil portrait on the wall.The trade adviser is guarded around Mr. Trump, often waiting until the end of meetings to make his points and quietly nudging the president away from actions he views as counterproductive, current and former officials said. That was the case in mid-2017 when he cautioned the president against withdrawing unilaterally from the World Trade Organization, adding for emphasis, And I hate the W.T.O. as much as anybody.He does not always get his way. In the wake of a new trade agreement with Mexico and Canada this fall, Mr. Lighthizer urged Mr. Trump to consider easing steel and aluminum tariffs on those countries and replacing them with less burdensome quotas. Mr. Trump rejected his plan, according to negotiators from all three countries.A poker-faced Mr. Lighthizer broke the news to his Mexican and Canadian counterparts by declaring the proposal was inoperative, one of the officials said.The president also ignored Mr. Lighthizers advice in early December when he announced that he intended to begin the six-month process of withdrawing the United States from Nafta in order to pressure House Democrats into passing the new United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement.That threat undermined months of quiet negotiations between Mr. Lighthizer, labor groups and Democrats like Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio and Representative Nancy Pelosi of California to try to win their support for the new trade deal. Mr. Trump has yet to follow through on his threat, and Mr. Lighthizer continues trying to work with Democrats to get the new trade deal approved.Bob is trying to provide stability and focus in a completely chaotic environment, Mr. Brown said. I cant speak for Bob, but I am certain he is frustrated. How could you not be frustrated as the U.S. trade representative for a president who knows what his gut thinks but hasnt put much of his brains into trade?Alan Rappeport contributed reporting.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Niraj ChokshiA woman who worked on Donald J. Trumps 2016 presidential campaign sued him in federal court on Monday, alleging that he forcibly kissed her at a campaign event in Florida months before the election.In the lawsuit, the woman, Alva Johnson, who is black, also accused the presidents campaign of discriminating against her by paying her less than her white and male colleagues.She joins more than a dozen other women who have publicly accused Mr. Trump of sexual misconduct.According to the lawsuit, which was filed in United States District Court in Tampa, Fla., Mr. Trump kissed Ms. Johnson without her consent on Aug. 24, 2016, in Tampa as he got out of a recreational vehicle during a campaign stop.The encounter began when Ms. Johnson, who was in the RV, spoke with Mr. Trump as he made his way to the door of the vehicle, according to the suit. She told him that she had spent months on the road working for him and offered words of encouragement.Mr. Trump then shook her hand firmly, promised that he wouldnt forget her and leaned in close enough that she could feel his breath on her skin, according to her lawsuit. As soon as she realized what was happening, it states, Ms. Johnson turned her head, but Mr. Trump still kissed her on the corner of the mouth.It was distressing to her, Hassan Zavareei, Ms. Johnsons lawyer, said in an interview on Monday. Shortly afterward, she called her significant other and her parents to tell them what had happened and was very upset and was in tears.All three confirmed to The Washington Post and The New Yorker that Ms. Johnson had indeed told them about the encounter at the time.I immediately felt violated because I wasnt expecting it or wanting it, Ms. Johnson told The Post.Mr. Zavareei declined to make Ms. Johnson available, saying that he had decided to limit the number of interviews she would give.The White House disputed the account.This accusation is absurd on its face, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said in a statement. This never happened and is directly contradicted by multiple highly credible eyewitness accounts.According to the suit, two campaign officials, Karen Giorno and Pam Bondi, the Florida attorney general at the time, walked out of the vehicle after Mr. Trump. Neither seemed to acknowledge what had happened at the time, according to Ms. Johnsons account, and both denied witnessing inappropriate behavior to The New Yorker and The Post.Ms. Johnson, 43, an event planner and human relations consultant who lives in Alabama, decided to ignore the episode and move on, but changed her mind months later after The Washington Post published video that showed Mr. Trump using vulgar language to describe unwanted groping and kissing.You know, Im automatically attracted to beautiful  I just start kissing them, he said in the video. Its like a magnet. Just kiss. I dont even wait. And when youre a star, they let you do it.Retraumatized, Ms. Johnson contacted a lawyer and quit the campaign, according to the suit. The lawyer declined to represent her, but not because her case lacked merit. (The lawyer, whom The Post did not name, told the publication that he had declined the case for business reasons.)After Mr. Trump was elected, Ms. Johnson again tried to put the episode behind her, but was prompted to act by what she saw as racist and sexist actions carried out by the Trump administration, her lawyer said.She did work for his campaign from the very beginning and did a lot of work to help him get elected and ultimately she just kind of felt very guilty and responsible for that, Mr. Zavareei said. She wanted to open up and be honest and tell her story and try and do what she could to redeem herself.Ms. Johnsons claims are similar in nature to those of several other women. Temple Taggart, a former Miss Utah, told The Times in 2016 that Mr. Trump kissed her twice without consent. Rachel Crooks said he did the same to her years ago. In all, more than a dozen women have accused Mr. Trump of sexual misconduct  allegations that include groping and assault.Mr. Trump has repeatedly dismissed such claims. Ive been a famous person for a long time, he said at a news conference last fall. But Ive had a lot of false charges made against me, really false charges.The presidents re-election campaign also denied that the discrimination claim had merit.The Trump campaign has never discriminated based on race, ethnicity, gender or any other basis, Kayleigh McEnany, the national press secretary for Mr. Trumps re-election campaign, said in a statement. Any allegation suggesting otherwise is off base and unfounded.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Annie Karni and Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON  President Trump, facing a growing public backlash over the partial government shutdown, shifted course on Saturday and offered Democrats a deal: temporary protections for roughly 700,000 young undocumented immigrants in exchange for $5.7 billion in funding for a wall along the southern border.But the proposal, which Mr. Trump unveiled in a 13-minute address from the White House, appeared dead on arrival in the Capitol. Speaker Nancy Pelosi rejected it even before Mr. Trump spoke, and Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, denounced the offer as not a compromise but more hostage taking.With the shutdown entering its fifth week and polls showing a majority of the public blaming Mr. Trump, the presidents advisers have been searching for an exit strategy. Saturdays speech grew out of talks that Vice President Mike Pence and the presidents son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, have had in recent days with lawmakers including Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader.The proposal was Mr. Trumps first public offer to Democrats since the partial shutdown began nearly a month ago. It came after an acrimonious week of tit-for-tat politics, in which Ms. Pelosi told the president he could not deliver his State of the Union address in the Capitol until the shutdown was over, and the president retaliated by grounding a plane that was supposed to take Ms. Pelosi on a fact-finding mission to Afghanistan.In casting the plan as a compromise, the president sought to shift pressure to Democrats  who have repeatedly refused to give Mr. Trump any money for his border wall  to end the shutdown. But Democrats continued to insist they will not negotiate with Mr. Trump over border security until the government reopens.Over the course of his administration, Mr. Trump has repeatedly sought to curb both legal and illegal immigration. He has revoked Temporary Protected Status, or T.P.S., which offers crucial protections for immigrants, for people from some Latin American and African countries. And he has moved to rescind Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, an Obama-era program that shielded the young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers from deportation.In the deal he outlined on Saturday, Mr. Trump offered to restore T.P.S. protection for 300,000 people, and said he would allow 700,000 Dreamers to keep their protections for three more years in exchange for $5.7 billion for a border barrier.That is our plan, Mr. Trump said. Border security, DACA, T.P.S. Many other things. Straightforward, fair, reasonable and common sense with lots of compromise. The proposal, Mr. Trump added, was intended to break the logjam and provide Congress with a path forward.The speech was the second time during the shutdown that the president addressed the nation about the immigration crisis. But unlike his first address, a prime-time broadcast from the Oval Office that leaned heavily on dark messaging about the dangers of crime and illegal drugs flowing across the border, Mr. Trump seemed on Saturday to soften his tone.He paired the address with his first naturalization ceremony at the White House, a move intended to underscore the idea that he supports legal immigration. And his language was markedly different; instead of insisting on the big beautiful wall he promised during his 2016 campaign, Mr. Trump took care to use the word barrier as well  and seemed to pare back his vision for it.Calling the wall a powerful and beautifully designed see-through steel barrier on our southern border, Mr. Trump said: This is not a 2,000-mile concrete structure from sea to sea. These are steel barriers in high priority locations. Much of the border is already protected by natural barriers such as mountains and water.Mr. Trump noted that he had adopted some Democratic proposals on border security. The president proposed $800 million for humanitarian assistance and $805 million for drug detection technology, in addition to funding for 2,750 more border agents and law enforcement officials and 75 new immigration judge teams.In her talking points, issued to Democrats, Ms. Pelosi said her party favored new drug, weapons and contraband scanning technology at official ports of entry, and filling the more than 3,000 vacancies for customs officers. Ms. Pelosi also intends to bring up legislation in the coming days that includes an additional $1 billion for border security, including $563 million for 75 new immigration judges and support staff.Even so, Democrats roundly criticized the presidents plan. They were particularly incensed that Mr. Trumps offer extended protections to Dreamers and T.P.S. recipients that he himself revoked. And they said the deal was a nonstarter because it did not offer any permanent protections for Dreamers.I think its simply more fake promises raising false hopes, Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, said. It will fool few Americans because its neither serious nor credible as a real remedy for Dreamers.Heres how much the proposed border deal would add to existing barriers.Some on the right also pushed back, describing the proposal as amnesty. James Carafano, a national security expert at the Heritage Foundation who worked on Mr. Trumps transition, was among the critics. Amnesty encourages further illegal immigration, incentivizes the tragedy of human trafficking and undermines our citizens confidence in the rule of law, he said.Mr. Pence, briefing reporters after Mr. Trumps remarks, said the speech reflected a painstaking process of listening to lawmakers, including rank-and-file Democrats who made it clear they believed that protections for DACA and T.P.S. recipients must be included in a border security deal.And he pushed back forcefully against critics like Mr. Carafano who said the measure amounted to an unacceptable amnesty for undocumented immigrants.There is no pathway to citizenship in this proposal, Mr. Pence said.But that was one reason many Democrats considered it unacceptable. Other senior administration officials made it clear that part of Mr. Trumps strategy was to try to drive a wedge within the party between those who want to hold out for a much more generous solution and those who may feel enough political pressure to end the shutdown that they will feel obliged to support it.Noting that Tuesday is the deadline for the government to reopen in time to prevent federal employees from going a second consecutive pay period without a check, Mick Mulvaney, the acting chief of staff, said Senate Democrats had a tricky decision to make. He also noted that the presidents ability to declare a national emergency was absolutely still a tool available to Mr. Trump to find funds to build the wall if a legislative agreement could not be reached.Now it will be up to Mr. McConnell to put legislation incorporating Mr. Trumps proposal on the Senate floor.Mr. McConnell  who has insisted he will not put any legislation on the floor unless the president will sign it  spoke to Mr. Trump, Mr. Kushner and Mr. Pence on Thursday night about finding a way forward.Mr. McConnell told the president that before he could bring up legislation on the Senate floor, he needed a public reassurance that Mr. Trump would sign it, one person close to the talks said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to describe sensitive discussions.The presidents proposal strikes a fair compromise by incorporating priorities from both sides of the aisle, Mr. McConnell said in a statement after Mr. Trumps speech.If Mr. McConnell does indeed put a bill on the floor, as the president said he would, Senate Democrats will have to decide whether to block it or let it come up for a vote. Despite Democrats vow to reject the measure, it could create an opening for negotiations between the two sides.The shutdown stalemate is creating increasing nervousness on Capitol Hill, especially among Republicans seeking re-election in Democratic-leaning states. One of them, Senator Susan Collins of Maine, is among only a handful of Republicans who have broken with the president and called for the government to reopen without a border security deal.On Saturday, she praised the president, saying she hoped that Mr. Trumps offer would lead to constructive debate that will end this impasse.White House aides and allies of Mr. Trump said Saturday that Mr. Trump succeeded in ratcheting up the political pressure on Ms. Pelosi, especially if the Senate succeeded in passing a bill.The Democrats talking points have been that the president is solely responsible for shutting down the government, Marc Short, the former White House legislative director, said. This puts more onus on them to come back and say why this proposal is insufficient.But one reason Democrats are so leery of the deal is that they have been down this road with the president before. Last year, Mr. Trump and Mr. Schumer negotiated $25 billion in wall money for a pathway to citizenship for the Dreamers. But that deal fell apart when hard-line White House advisers persuaded the president to back away.The standoff over the shutdown, some former aides noted, was the first time Mr. Trump has had to engage in meaningful, high-stakes negotiations. But even that has come as a last resort, in what some have likened to negotiating out of desperation after failing to score political points.Julie Hirschfeld Davis contributed reporting.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byIn the age of A.O.C., the lesson must be learned again.By Bret StephensOpinion ColumnistConspicuous by its absence in much of the mainstream news coverage of Venezuelas political crisis is the word socialism. Yes, every sensible observer agrees that Latin Americas once-richest country, sitting atop the worlds largest proven oil reserves, is an economic basket case, a humanitarian disaster, and a dictatorship whose demise cannot come soon enough.But  socialist? Perish the thought.Or so goes a line of argument that insists socialisms good name shouldnt be tarred by the results of experience. On Venezuela, what youre likelier to read is that the crisis is the product of corruption, cronyism, populism, authoritarianism, resource-dependency, U.S. sanctions and trickery, even the residues of capitalism itself. Just dont mention the S-word because, you know, its working really well in Denmark.Curiously, thats not how the Venezuelan regimes admirers used to speak of 21st century socialism, as it was dubbed by Hugo Chvez. The late Venezuelan president, said Britains Jeremy Corbyn, showed us there is a different and a better way of doing things. Its called socialism, its called social justice, and its something that Venezuela has made a big step toward. Noam Chomsky was similarly enthusiastic when he praised Chvez in 2009. Whats so exciting about at last visiting Venezuela, the linguist said, is that I can see how a better world is being created and can speak to the person whos inspired it.Nor were many of the Chvezs admirers overly worried about his regimes darker sides. Chomsky walked back some of his praise as Venezuela became more overtly dictatorial, but others on the left werent as squeamish. In a lengthy obituary in The Nation, New York University professor Greg Grandin opined, the biggest problem Venezuela faced during his rule was not that Chvez was authoritarian but that he wasnt authoritarian enough.At least Grandin could implicitly concede that socialism ultimately requires coercion to achieve its political aims; otherwise, its human nature for people to find loopholes and workarounds to keep as much of their property as they can.Thats more than can be said for some of Chvezs erstwhile defenders, who would prefer to forget just how closely Venezuela followed the orthodox socialist script. Government spending on social programs? Check: From 2000 to 2013, spending rose to 40 percent of G.D.P., from 28 percent. Raising the minimum wage? Check. Nicols Maduro, the current president, raised it no fewer than six times last year (though it makes no difference in the face of hyperinflation). An economy based on co-ops, not corporations? Check again. As Naomi Klein wrote in her fawning 2007 book, The Shock Doctrine, Chvez has made the co-ops a top political priority  By 2006, there were roughly 100,000 cooperatives in the country, employing more than 700,000 workers.And, lest we forget, all of this was done as Chvez won one election after another during the oil-boom years. Indeed, one of the chief selling points of Chavismo to its Western fans wasnt just that it was an example of socialism, but of democratic socialism, too.If the policy prescriptions were familiar, the consequences were predictable.Government overspending created catastrophic deficits when oil prices plummeted. Worker co-ops wound up in the hands of incompetent and corrupt political cronies. The government responded to its budgetary problems by printing money, leading to inflation. Inflation led to price controls, leading to shortages. Shortages led to protests, leading to repression and the destruction of democracy. Thence to widespread starvation, critical medical shortages, an explosion in crime, and a refugee crisis to rival Syrias.All of this used to be obvious enough, but in the age of Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez it has to be explained all over again. Why does socialism never work? Because, as Margaret Thatcher explained, eventually you run out of other peoples money.What now? The Trump administration took exactly the right step in recognizing National Assembly leader Juan Guaid as Venezuelas constitutionally legitimate president. It can bolster his personal security by warning Venezuelas generals that harm will come to them if harm comes to him. It can enhance his political standing by providing access to funds that can help him establish an alternative government and entice wavering figures in the Maduro camp to switch sides. It can put Venezuela on the list of state sponsors of terrorism, and warn Cuba that it will be returned to the list if it continues to aid Caracass intelligence apparatus.And it can help arrange legal immunity and a plane for Maduro, his family, and other leading members of the regime if they will agree to resign now. Surely theres a compound in Havana where that gang can live out their days without tyrannizing a nation.In the meantime, the larger lesson of Venezuelas catastrophe should be learned. Twenty years of socialism, cheered by Corbyn, Klein, Chomsky and Co., led to the ruin of a nation. They may not be much embarrassed, much less personally harmed, by what they helped do. Its for the rest of us to take care that it never be done to us.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.  @BretStephensNYT  Facebook Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byChina can pay him off; places with rule of law cant.By Paul KrugmanOpinion ColumnistTheres been some good news on global trade lately: A full-scale U.S.-China trade war appears to be on hold, and may be avoided altogether.The bad news is that if we do make a trade deal with China, it will basically be because the Chinese are offering Donald Trump a personal political payoff. At the same time, a much more dangerous trade conflict with Europe is looming. And the Europeans, who still have this peculiar thing called rule of law, cant bribe their way to trade peace.The background: Last year the Trump administration imposed tariffs on a wide range of Chinese products, covering more than half of Chinas exports to the United States. But that might have been only the beginning: Trump had threatened to impose much higher tariffs on $200 billion of Chinese exports starting this Friday.What was the motivation for these tariffs? Remarkably, there doesnt seem to be any strong constituency demanding protectionism; if anything, major industries have been lobbying against Trumps trade moves, and the stock market clearly dislikes trade conflict, going down when tensions rise and recovering when they ease.So trade conflict is essentially Trumps personal vendetta  one that he is able to pursue because U.S. international trade law gives the president enormous discretion to impose tariffs on a variety of grounds. Predicting trade policy is therefore about figuring out whats going on in one mans mind.Now, there are real reasons for the U.S. to be angry at China, and demand policy changes. Above all, China notoriously violates the spirit of international trade rules, de facto restricting foreign companies access to its market unless they hand over valuable technology. So you could make a case for U.S. pressure on China  coordinated with other advanced economies!  to stop that practice.But there has been little evidence that Trump is interested in dealing with the real China problem. I was at a trade policy conference over the weekend where experts were asked what Trump really wants; the most popular answer was tweetable deliveries.Sure enough, Trump has been crowing about what he portrays as big Chinese concessions, which all seem to involve Chinas government ordering companies to buy U.S. agricultural products. In particular, the postponement of the trade war came after a Chinese pledge to buy 10 million tons of soybeans. This will please farmers, although its far from clear that it will even make up for the losses theyve suffered from previous Trump actions.The point, however, is that what China is offering doesnt at all get at the real U.S. national interests at stake. All it does is give Trump something to tweet about.Oh, and by the way: Chinas biggest bank, which happens to be majority-owned by the Chinese government, currently occupies three whole floors in the Trump Tower in Manhattan. It has been planning to reduce its space; it will be interesting to see what happens to that plan now.Meanwhile, the U.S. Commerce Department has prepared a report on imports of European automobiles that, according to the German press, concludes that these imports pose a threat to national security. If this sounds ridiculous, thats because it is. Indeed, while the Europeans arent angels, they do abide by global rules, and its hard to accuse them of any major trade sins. Yes, they do have 10 percent tariffs on U.S. cars  but we impose 25 percent tariffs on their light trucks, which makes us more than even.But a department headed by perhaps the most corrupt commerce secretary in history will, of course, conclude whatever Trump wants it to conclude. And this report gives the president the legal authority to get us into a trade war with the European Union.If it happens, this trade war will be immensely damaging. The E.U. is Americas biggest export market, directly accounting for around 2.6 million jobs. Moreover, our economies are very much intermeshed  which is why even the U.S. auto industry is horrified at the possibility that Trump will impose tariffs on cars.But heres the thing: Unlike the Chinese government, the E.U. cant order private companies to make splashy purchases of U.S. goods. And it certainly cant steer business to Trump Organization properties. As a result, the chances of spiraling trade conflict remain high.The point is that when it comes to dealing with Trump and his team, autocracies have an advantage over democracies that follow the rule of law. And trade disputes are arguably the least of it. Think about the push by financially conflicted Trump advisers to sell nuclear technology to the Bone Saw Kingdom, otherwise known as Saudi Arabia. Or think of the influence golf-playing expats seem to be having over Venezuela policy.So while stock markets are happy about the prospects for trade peace with China, the broader picture is deeply disturbing. If we do manage to limit the damage from this confrontation, it will be for the wrong reasons. And the warped motivations governing U.S. foreign policy may yet have deeply destructive consequences, with a trade war far from being the scariest possibility.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.  @PaulKrugman Advertisement"
"AdvertisementListen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherDemocrats have waited two years for a chance to investigate President Trump on their own terms. Starting tomorrow, they can. We look at how they plan to use  and not use  that power.On todays episode:Jason Zengerle, a contributing writer for The New York Times Magazine.Background reading:In a divided government, Democrats are unlikely to have much legislative power. Instead, their greatest advantage may lie in their authority to investigate the White House. Meet three congressmen who will be deciding how to wield this authority. Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if youre interested in advertising with The Daily, write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.Jason Zengerle contributed reporting.What Will Democrats Do With Their New Power? was produced by Lynsea Garrison and Annie Brown, with help from Paige Cowett and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Lisa Tobin.The Daily is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Jessica Cheung, Lynsea Garrison, Michael Simon Johnson, Andy Mills, Neena Pathak, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah, Clare Toeniskoetter, Jonathan Wolfe and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Larissa Anderson, Paige Cowett and Wendy Dorr. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Chris Wood is our sound engineer. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.Advertisement"
"Advertisement

      Compiled by NATALIE PROULX

JAN. 15, 2019

Please note: Our next quiz will publish on Jan. 29, and it will include two weeks of news.Above is an image related to one of the news stories we followed this past week. Do you know what it shows? At the bottom of this quiz, you'll find the answer.Have you been paying attention to the news recently? See how many of these 10 questions you can get right.More than 30,000  public-school teachers began a strike on Jan. 14, the first in three decades in the district. Holding plastic-covered signs on rain-drenched picket lines across the city, they demanded higher pay, smaller classes and more support staff in schools.DenverHoustonLos AngelesNew York CityAt midnight on Jan. 15, the shutdown entered its 25th day, which makes it the longest gap in American government funding ever. That beats the previous record, under President , of 21 days.Barack Obama in 2013Bill Clinton in 1995Jimmy Carter in 1978 Ronald Reagan in 1982 In a report published on Jan. 10, scientists said  far more quickly than previously thought, a finding with dire implications for climate change because almost all the excess heat absorbed by the planet ends up stored there.Antarctica is meltingthe continents land mass is dryingthe ozone layer is deterioratingthe worlds oceans are warmingOn Jan. 8, a historic amendment to the Florida Constitution restoring the voting rights of as many as 1.5 million  went into effect.former felonsmentally ill people teenagersundocumented immigrantsHouse Republican leaders removed Representative  from the Judiciary and Agriculture Committees on Jan. 14 as party officials scrambled to appear tough on racism and contain damage from comments he made to The New York Times questioning why white supremacy is considered offensive.Chris Collins of New YorkKevin McCarthy of CaliforniaRick Allen of GeorgiaSteve King of IowaIn the days after President Trump fired James B. Comey as F.B.I. director, law enforcement officials became so concerned by the presidents behavior that they began investigating whether he had , according to former law enforcement officials and others familiar with the investigation.been suffering from psychological instabilitybeen working on behalf of Russia against American interestshired undocumented workers at his golf coursesviolated Twitters new hateful conduct policyFelix Tshisekedi was declared the winner of  presidential election on Jan. 10, despite independent assessments that a rival, Martin Fayulu, was the top vote-getter.EgyptsSierra Leonesthe Democratic Republic of CongosZimbabwe's, the popular children's song, entered the Billboard Hot 100 chart at No. 32 this week, placing Pinkfong, a South Korean educational brand, alongside the worlds top musical artists.Baby SharkHow Far Ill GoLet It GoPirates AdventurePresident Trump threatened Turkey on Jan. 13 with harsh economic sanctions if it attacks  forces in Syria after American troops withdraw from the country in the coming months.ISISKurdishRussianSyrianThree of the entertainment-related articles below were recently published in The New York Times. One is from the satirical site The Onion. Which is the fake news story?After Stephen King Tweeted at a Maine Paper for Cutting Book Reviews, It Gave Readers a Scary Good OfferLin-Manuel Miranda Brings Hamilton to a Troubled but Appreciative Puerto RicoMiss America Pageant Adds Sweatpants and Messy Bun CompetitionMissy Elliott to Be First Female Rapper in Songwriters Hall of FameAdvertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily CochraneWASHINGTON  Less than a month into the 116th Congress, Sean McElwee, the liberal co-founder of Data for Progress, rattled off a list of sitting Democratic House members who should face a primary from the left, his exposition punctuated with dismissive expletives.There was Representative Stephen F. Lynch of Massachusetts, a moderate, perennial primary target who voted against the Affordable Care Act in 2010; Representative Henry Cuellar of Texas, who raised money for a Republican House incumbent last year as a popular Democratic challenger was closing in; Representative Daniel Lipinski, an old-school Chicago-area politician who has voted against gay marriage and tried to sink Obamacare; and Representative Eliot L. Engel of New York, the chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee who has clashed with one of the highest-profile liberal freshmen, Ilhan Omar of Minnesota.Mr. McElwee, a pollster and political adviser, has floated all of those names to Justice Democrats, a small grass-roots organization that burst onto the political scene last year after coordinating Alexandria Ocasio-Cortezs stunning primary defeat of Joseph Crowley of New York, the No. 4 Democrat in the House at the time.These are a lot of ideological contests for the soul of the Democratic Party, Mr. McElwee said.So far, Justice Democrats has publicly confirmed its intent on only one primary challenge  against Mr. Cuellar, who infuriated the left when he raised money for Representative John Carter as the Democratic challenger, M.J. Hegar, was gaining traction.But more are coming, and the organizations ambitions to replace more centrist Democrats with liberal candidates have inspired other clusters of insurgency  and pushed progressive policies to the forefront of the liberal agenda. The conflicts  both generational and ideological  burst into the open again on Friday when children with the Sunrise Movement, a youth climate-change advocacy group, pressed Senator Dianne Feinstein, a moderate California Democrat, to embrace the so-called Green New Deal in an extended confrontation that instantly went viral.Justice Democrats, built in part by former staff members for Senator Bernie Sanderss 2016 presidential campaign, has made some lawmakers uneasy  and invited comparisons to conservative groups that have bedeviled Republican leaders and pulled that party to the right.Democratic lawmakers say their big tent party must embrace varying degrees of liberal ideology to match the House districts they hope to represent.I support the principle of open competition, said Representative Ro Khanna, Democrat of California and an ardent liberal whom Justice Democrats claims as one of its own. But, Mr. Khanna added: Im not going to be spending any of my efforts recruiting, supporting candidates against my colleagues. Id rather we build and form a consensus.Waleed Shahid, Justice Democrats communications director, said primaries give the most involved, activist voters in solid blue districts the chance to choose what kind of Democrat they want representing them in Congress.It takes movements like ours to push parties to prioritize what the base wants and what the values of the party are, Mr. Shahid said. That is the role of our movement, to give a policy vision for this country to a party that often lacks a clear policy vision.A spokesman for the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, the campaign arm of House Democrats, said its focus remained on defeating President Trump and expanding the current House majority. (The committee has announced a slate of 32 seats held by Republicans it intends to challenge.) Mr. Cuellar, asked last month about Justice Democrats challenge, reminded reporters that this would not be his first round beating back a primary opponent.What happened to the Democratic Party being a tent? Mr. Cuellar said as he described a moderate Democratic constituency in his district, which stretches from the Mexican border to the suburbs of San Antonio. An outside group that thinks they know southwest Texas politics better than I do are going to find out.Both supporters and opponents of Justice Democrats say that with the 2018 election barely in the rearview mirror, it is too early to assess how primary challenges might disrupt the Democratic field. But in a presidential year, when turnout in the primaries is often much higher than in midterm election seasons, Justice Democrats has the potential to be far more disruptive than it was in 2018, and the group and its allies are in a fighting mood.We should absolutely be allowed to contest what it means to be a Democrat, Mr. McElwee said in an interview. You cant have a tent that includes both people of color and people who work to undermine the rights and humanity of people of color. He pointed to Gov. Ralph Northam of Virginia, who defeated a more progressive Democrat, Tom Perriello, in the primary, only to be consumed in scandal for his use of blackface in the 1980s.Liberal primary challengers are not new to the Democratic Party, but they can be costly. Steve Israel, a retired congressman from New York who once led the campaign committee, recalled instances in which lawmakers delayed contributions to the tight races of their colleagues as they fought off primary challengers in their safe districts.Now, the challenges carry more weight.It didnt have the energy and the intensity that it does now, Mr. Israel said, adding, Every challenge has to be taken seriously.Ms. Ocasio-Cortez caught Mr. Crowley off guard, but this time, Justice Democrats targets will see a challenge coming  although awareness is not necessarily a guarantee for survival. Months after Ms. Ocasio-Cortezs victory, Ayanna S. Pressley, a Boston city councilwoman endorsed by the group, successfully toppled Michael Capuano, a 10-term Massachusetts congressman.Mr. Shahid acknowledged that Justice Democrats, with 12 full-time and part-time staff members, had some missteps to learn from. He said the organization had to learn from stretching ourselves too thin and not being as laser focused.He noted that the group would back a smaller group of candidates and focus solely on races in secure Democratic districts. Group members, during a conference call last week, said they had begun reaching out to people to discuss possible campaigns, but had not closed the endorsement window.In 2018, Justice Democrats endorsed 78 candidates and recruited 12 to run for office, serving as a grass-roots political consulting firm and jump-starting campaigns. Out of those 12, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez was the only one who won her general election. Six other endorsed candidates  three incumbents and three freshmen  also made it to Congress. All seven are in the House.Many of the groups candidates challenged races in districts that leaned Republican, and in several cases the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee worked hard to beat them back, worried that a Justice Democrats triumph in the primary would cost the party a potential seat. Lizzie Fletcher, for instance, beat the Justice Democrats candidate, Laura Moser, in a primary in the Houston suburbs, then went on to defeat the Republican incumbent, John Culberson, in a race that may have been far more difficult for her to win as a more liberal candidate.In more Democratic districts, candidates supported by Justice Democrats came up disappointingly short. Marie Newmans challenge to Mr. Lipinski, backed by some sitting Democratic lawmakers, was seen as a real opportunity to take down a congressman increasingly loathed by his own party. She lost, though Justice Democrats speculates that had her primary been after Ms. Ocasio-Cortezs, the momentum would have lifted her to victory.This time around, the organization intends to spend more on fewer candidates and is working to build a larger infrastructure and a bigger fund-raising arm. During the monthly call last week, members outlined a new fellowship program in which people could learn about staffing a campaign and becoming part of a more permanent foundation for candidates races.Candidates are required to pledge not to take any corporate political action committee or lobbying money, and are expected to be aligned with Justice Democrats platform, which includes abolishing Immigration and Customs Enforcement, advocating free public colleges and trade schools, and ending the death penalty.Mr. Shahid frequently raises comparisons to, among other movements, the abolitionists in the Civil War-era Republican Party. Eric Foner, a historian and professor emeritus at Columbia University, said the group could learn from them.You have to play the long game if you dont command a majority right now, he said. Im not advocating that they be quiet, but if you dont have a majority, youre automatically playing the longer game.Mr. Shahid, Mr. McElwee and their allies argue that they do not need long-game patience. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, Representative Rashida Tlaib of Michigan and Ms. Omar, all Justice Democrats candidates, have already pushed strong climate change measures, higher taxes on the wealthy and support for a Palestinian state into the mainstream debate surrounding Democratic ideals.Medicare for all, a tenet of the groups platform, and the Green New Deal have become critical aspects of the Democratic primary race for president in 2020. Even sitting Democrats have felt pressure to endorse the programs  or, like Ms. Feinstein, have faced viral wrath for appearing to not take the platforms seriously.We cant have a 15-year power-building strategy, Mr. McElwee said. We have to have power now. We have to have it next election.Some of the groups potency stems from the viral might of Ms. Ocasio-Cortez and her close ties to the group: Two of her top staff members helped found Justice Democrats, and Mr. Shahid worked on her campaign. And she appeared in an eight-minute video with the organizations founders that circulated last month, explaining how Justice Democrats propelled her campaign into existence and success.Its an uncomfortable feeling to go against the grain, but thats what were here for, said Corbin Trent, a spokesman for Ms. Ocasio-Cortez and a founder of the group.Hopefully, he added, things are getting shook up a little bit.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Mihir ZaveriA grand jury indicted Jussie Smollett, the actor from the television series Empire, on Thursday on 16 counts of disorderly conduct after the authorities said he falsely reported to the police that he had been attacked by two men who made racial and homophobic slurs, court records show.Mr. Smollett, who is black and gay, had told the police in January that while he was walking in downtown Chicago to pick up food, he had been assaulted by two men who put a rope around his neck, poured a chemical substance on him and said it was MAGA country, a reference to President Trumps campaign slogan of Make America Great Again.About a dozen detectives were assigned to the case. Mr. Smollett, who the police said did not have serious injuries, received an outpouring of public support at a time when reported hate crimes were on the rise.But last month, the authorities revealed that they believed the assault was staged and that Mr. Smollett was upset with his salary for his work on the television series and wanted publicity.Eddie T. Johnson, the Chicago police superintendent, said Mr. Smollett had taken advantage of the pain of racism and diverted resources away from other criminal investigations.I just wish that the families of gun violence in this city got this much attention, he said, referring to the news media.The indictments, felony counts that were dated Thursday, alleged that Mr. Smollett falsely reported batteries, aggravated batteries and hate crimes. It was not immediately clear what the maximum sentence he could face would be if he was convicted.The Cook County states attorneys office did not respond to a request for comment on Friday night.Mark Geragos, a lawyer for Mr. Smollett, said in a statement that the indictment was prosecutorial overkill and redundant and vindictive.Jussie adamantly maintains his innocence even if law enforcement has robbed him of that presumption, Mr. Geragos said.Mr. Smollett posted bail in February and returned to the set of Empire in Chicago, where the show was being shot.The police said Mr. Smollett paid two brothers $3,500 to carry out the assault. Prosecutors said they had video of the brothers at the scene and their testimony about how Mr. Smollett recruited them.The police said surveillance footage showed the brothers taking a cab from the area of the reported assault. Investigators interviewed the cabdriver and identified the passengers as the brothers: Olabinjo and Abimbola Osundairo.Both had worked as extras on Empire. Mr. Smollett has acknowledged that he had paid one of them to train him for a music video.The men flew to Nigeria soon after the staged encounter, the police said. When they returned to Chicago on Feb. 13, they were met by investigators and detained for two days, the authorities said. After interviewing the brothers, the police released them without charges.Investigators had approached the case as a possible hate crime but had trouble finding evidence to match Mr. Smolletts account. The attack was not visible on surveillance cameras.Robert Chiarito contributed reporting.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byTHE DAILY NEWSLETTERWaking up to news of the terror attack in New Zealand.By Michael Barbaro[Want to get this by email? Heres the sign-up.]By 1 a.m. Eastern time on Friday, it was clear something awful had happened in New Zealand. What was unclear was just how awful. I read the coverage in The Times, scanned emails from our International Desk and sent a message to my colleagues on The Daily updating them on the situation.At moments like this, we have to make a difficult decision: Do we know enough, in the middle of a breaking news story (and in the middle of the night), to tell it in a meaningful way on the show?In this case, we did not.I set an alarm for just before 6 a.m., when The Daily is published, to check back in on the story.By then, the scope of the tragedy was evident.Still, the details remained sketchy. I wrote up what we knew, recorded an update from home (I have a microphone set up inside a closet) and sent it to Chris Wood, a Daily engineer in London who  because of the time difference  makes final changes to the show when the rest of us are asleep back in New York. He quickly updated the end of the episode with the news.It was an imperfect situation. For those waking up and seeking a detailed understanding of what had occured in New Zealand, we would not entirely satisfy that need. We had run out of time. But we wanted to make sure listeners knew that a deadly attack had happened.As I write this at 2 p.m. on Friday, were planning a full episode about the shooting for Mondays show.Talk to Michael on Twitter: @mikiebarb.How will the Mueller investigation end? Mike Schmidt takes us through three possible scenarios. We talk to Representative Jerry Nadler, the head of the House Judiciary Committee, about the Mueller report, the multiple investigations circling the president and the I word.What exactly is Medicare for all? Depends on whom you ask.What this has done is really laid bare, for all of us to see in plain view, how unequal the system truly is. The college admissions scandal shows how the price of entry for some wealthy families comes at a cost to everyone else.Will the family that built much of its wealth on sales of OxyContin be held legally accountable for its role in the opioid epidemic?After Thursdays episode, listeners wrote in asking whether Medicare for all would cost more or less for the government and for individuals than our current health care system. The answer? Its complicated. Heres what Margot Sanger-Katz, our guest for the episode, had to say:According to a range of estimates from economists, a Medicare for all system along the lines of one proposed by Senator Bernie Sanders would cost the federal government somewhere between $7 trillion more than our current system and $6 trillion less over 10 years. (That lowest estimate came from someone associated with the Sanders 2016 campaign.)There are elements of a single-payer system that may increase costs, and others that may lower it. A Sanders-esque system includes a lot of features that will tend to increase the amount of medical care people in this country use. It will provide health insurance to everyone currently without it. It will cover things that most insurance now doesnt, like dental care and long-term care. Those changes could benefit individuals and the countrys public health, but they will probably cause more people to use doctors and dentists and nursing homes than they do now, and that care will cost money.An advantage of single-payer is that it could lower profits and administrative costs. Currently, the country spends around 20 percent of its health care dollars on things other than direct health care. Switching to a single, government-run system could squeeze that number down. A Medicare for all system would also have the power to control the prices paid for medical care to doctors and hospitals  and prices are the biggest factor that makes the U.S. system so expensive. Finding the right prices will be a practical and political challenge, however, since any savings will tend to lower someones income.Determining whether the system would be cheaper or more expensive for any individual is hard. Right now, we pay for health care in various ways: through taxes, through premiums and through cash payments to doctors and hospitals. Under Medicare for all, health care would instead be largely funded with taxes, and how those taxes are designed will affect who pays more or less than they do now.Who: Paige Cowett, an editor for The DailyWhat: Oprah Winfrey Presents: After NeverlandAfter our episode with Wesley Morris about the documentary Leaving Neverland, I watched Oprahs follow-up conversation with the two men in the documentary who say that Michael Jackson sexually abused them when they were boys. I was struck by how she managed to make the discussion not about Jackson. While many of us grappled with what the accusations of sexual abuse mean for Jacksons place in our culture and in our hearts, Oprah focused on something that so much of the media ignored: the impact on victims, the playbook of predators and the pervasiveness of this abuse.For the biggest stories of our time, told by New York Times journalists each weekday, listen to The Daily. You can find it at nytimes.com/thedaily or wherever you get your podcasts.Have thoughts about the show? Tell us what you think at thedaily@nytimes.com.Love podcasts? Join The New York Times Podcast Club on Facebook.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Alan Blinder and Richard FaussetRALEIGH, N.C.  When Republicans took control of virtually every lever of North Carolinas state government for the first time since Reconstruction, they set out to transform the historically moderate Southern state into a more conservative stronghold.That was less than seven years ago.These days, the question is how much Republicans may have set their project back with a recent string of remarkable self-inflicted wounds.Its never a dull moment with the Republicans here, said Morgan Jackson, a Democratic strategist and an ally of Gov. Roy Cooper, the Democrat whose November 2016 election was helped along by the protracted fight over a Republican-backed bill limiting the bathroom choices of transgender people. Every time we think it cant get worse, they figure out a way to dig deeper.This week, federal prosecutors announced that the chairman of the states Republican Party, Robin Hayes, had been indicted on charges of bribery and other crimes related to a scheme they said was designed to aid a major donor, who was also charged. The revelation came almost six weeks after Republicans faced the rare embarrassment of watching their seeming victory in a congressional race unravel after it became clear that their nominee had financed an illicit voter-turnout effort.[Read: Inside a Fly-by-Night Operation to Harvest Ballots in North Carolina]For the states Republicans, who rose to power by railing against cases of Democratic corruption and promising to be a positive disrupting force, the fresh scandals amount to a staggering record of self-disruption.For the states liberals, it has been a moment to bask in schadenfreude. Over the last several years, they watched and warred with North Carolina Republicans amid aggressive conservative efforts to deregulate industry, play down climate change, curtail access to the ballot box, strip a Democratic governor of some executive powers, launch their so-called bathroom bill and gerrymander districts in ways that made the courts recoil.Republicans won some of those fights and lost others, but the hard-right turn plunged the state into years of intense partisan warfare rife with high-profile boycotts and large-scale public demonstrations.It is this record, and the recent bouts with scandal, that could also affect state and national elections next year.Mr. Cooper will be up for re-election, as will Senator Thom Tillis, a Republican whose delicate political situation was recently underscored by his opposition to  then eventual support of  President Trumps controversial executive action to fund a border wall.And once again, this battleground state will be up for grabs in a presidential race  one that will unfold as Charlotte, the states largest city, hosts the Republican National Convention, where Mr. Trump is likely to make his case for re-election.But there is also a chance that Democrats might end up ensnared in the most recent federal probe.The donor who was charged, Greg E. Lindberg, the chairman of an investment firm in Durham, gave money to both parties. In the indictment unsealed Tuesday, federal prosecutors said Mr. Lindberg worked with Mr. Hayes to bribe the state insurance commissioner, Mike Causey, with campaign donations in the hopes that Mr. Causey would replace a state regulator who oversaw a company that Mr. Lindberg owned.Mr. Hayes, who is a former congressman, Mr. Lindberg and two other men who were charged pleaded not guilty on Tuesday in appearances before a federal magistrate in Charlotte.Mr. Causey, a Republican, tipped off federal investigators about possible corruption and later worked closely with them during their protracted inquiry. In an interview on Wednesday, Mr. Causey said he did not expect Republicans to be alone in facing the fallout.This is certainly not a party thing, Mr. Causey said, adding, I think when the facts come out, youre going to see both parties in the same boat.Mr. Causey would not elaborate, and a spokeswoman for the F.B.I. declined to comment.Although the indictment focused on Mr. Lindbergs dealings with Republicans, his ties to Democrats have also been under scrutiny in recent months.Wayne Goodwin, a former insurance commissioner who is now chairman of the North Carolina Democratic Party, accepted donations from Mr. Lindberg and later consulted for him. Mr. Goodwin told The Wall Street Journal this year that he was not a target of the federal inquiry, with which he said he cooperated.The speculation around Mr. Goodwin, who has not been charged, did not keep his state party operation from taking a gleeful swing at its opponent. In a statement, Democrats mashed the scandals together and also nodded to the turmoil surrounding Representative Mark Walker, a North Carolina Republican whose ties to Mr. Lindberg were referenced in the indictment that became public this week. (Mr. Walker was not charged with a crime and was not identified by name in the indictment.)Bribery. Election fraud. Witness tampering. Lying to the F.B.I., Wednesdays Democratic Party statement declared, adding that 2019 would be the year when North Carolina Republicans corruption finally became public and the partys leading figures became fully engulfed in chaos.Carter Wrenn, a longtime Republican consultant in North Carolina, said the allegations of chicanery created a smell in the air and around the Republican Party. The party, he said, would do well to try to quickly isolate the scandals.Indeed, the Republican Party played down the idea of chaos, even as it moved to put a limited distance between itself and the accused. In a statement on Wednesday, it said Mr. Hayes had relinquished most of his day-to-day duties and that another Republican leader, Aubrey Woodard, had been named acting chairman. On Monday, the day before his indictment became public, Mr. Hayes said he planned to step down later this year as party chairman, citing his health.The indictment is a dramatic turn of events for Mr. Hayes, 73, a former State House majority whip whose family founded the Cannon Mills textiles company, and who has long been an advocate of integrating biblical principles into state government. He opposes abortion and was criticized, in an unsuccessful 1996 run for governor, for supporting a sex education curriculum that promoted abstinence and recommended cleaning genitals with Lysol disinfectant after sex.To critics, the new instability is a consequence of the partys years of dominance, when they controlled the Executive Mansion and had a supermajority in the General Assembly.Until this year theres been literally no check on these folks, except for the courts, said Allison Riggs, a senior lawyer at the Southern Coalition for Social Justice who has been involved in fighting Republican redistricting efforts in North Carolina.Pat McCrory, a business-minded former Charlotte mayor, was elected governor in 2012 and helped cement Republican power in North Carolina. But the partys state legislative leaders often set the aggressive tone. In March 2016, Republicans led the charge on the law that became known as H.B. 2, which curbed legal protections for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people and set new restrictions on transgender bathroom use.The resulting national backlash, with boycotts and threats of boycotts, allowed Mr. Cooper, who was then challenging Mr. McCrory, to argue that Republicans were harming the business climate. In November 2016, on a night when Mr. Trump won the state, Mr. Cooper did, too, by a slim margin. A few months later, he and the Legislature arrived at a compromise to repeal the law.Last year, the Republicans power was further weakened when they lost their veto-proof majorities in the Legislature.But they are majorities still, proof of the continued power of conservative ideas in North Carolina.In an interview in his office on Wednesday, Senator Phil Berger, the president pro tempore of the North Carolina Senate and long one of the most influential Republicans in the state, cautioned against drawing immediate conclusions about how the scandals would influence voters.Still, he acknowledged that it was frustrating that scandals were so often overshadowing Republican policy achievements.Stepping on a rake, Mr. Berger said with a light chuckle. I see it as some Republicans doing something that creates problems for the vast majority of Republicans who havent done anything wrong.Alan Blinder reported from Raleigh and Richard Fausset from Atlanta.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Jacey FortinThree men who were convicted of plotting to blow up a Kansas apartment complex where Somali refugees lived have each been sentenced to at least 25 years in prison, the Justice Department said on Friday.The defendants in this case acted with clear premeditation in an attempt to kill innocent people on the basis of their religion and national origin, Matthew G. Whitaker, the acting United States attorney general, said in a statement. Thats not just illegal  its morally repugnant.During the trial last year in Wichita, Kan., prosecutors portrayed the men as aspiring domestic terrorists who were preparing to bomb the apartment complex in Garden City, Kan., which is home to a makeshift mosque and a community of Somali immigrants. The men, who called themselves the Crusaders, were arrested about four weeks before Nov. 9, 2016, the date they had picked for the bombing.Prosecutors said the men had also considered attacks on other targets, including elected officials and churches that helped refugees. In secretly recorded conversations, the men could be heard making demeaning comments about Muslims; one called them cockroaches.On Friday, Curtis Allen, 51, was sentenced to 25 years in prison. Gavin Wright, 53, was sentenced to 26 years. Patrick Stein, 49, was sentenced to 30 years.In April, the men were convicted of conspiring to use a weapon of mass destruction and conspiracy against rights, which the Justice Department considers a hate crime. Mr. Wright was also convicted of lying to the F.B.I.These defendants planned to ruthlessly bomb an apartment complex and kill innocent people, simply because of who they are and how they worship, Christopher A. Wray, the F.B.I. director, said in the statement.Kari Schmidt, a lawyer for Mr. Wright, said his sentence significantly exceeded typical sentences for cases like these. We believe certain trial rulings materially impaired presentation of the full story to the jury, she added. Mr. Wright will appeal his conviction.Lawyers for the other men did not immediately respond to requests for comment on Saturday. But they have previously argued that their clients had been manipulated or prodded by the F.B.I., and that they had been unfairly targeted for exercising their rights to free speech and gun ownership.The trial focused on evidence from a paid F.B.I. informant who had infiltrated a militia group that included the three men and secretly recorded their conversations.The proceedings took on political significance in part because the F.B.I. has been criticized frequently by President Trump, and because it took place during an era of escalating threats against racial and religious minorities.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie HabermanRaj Shah, a top spokesman in the White House press office, has left and joined an arm of a Florida-based lobbying firm, officials said Monday.Since President Trumps inauguration, White House staffers and cabinet officials have left in firings and resignations, one after the other.Mr. Shah will lead the Media Group, the press wing of Ballard Partners, a lobbying firm with offices in Florida and Washington. He will work with Jamie Rubin, a Democrat who was a spokesman for Madeleine Albright, the former secretary of state, officials said.Mr. Shah, a former researcher at the Republican National Committee, had been in the administration since Mr. Trump took office. His portfolio recently included helping prepare Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh for his Senate confirmation hearings to the Supreme Court.His departure comes as the White House press and communications teams have been depleted. Several aides have moved on to roles at government agencies or have left the Trump administration entirely.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byA Word WithBy Kathryn ShattuckCush Jumbo loves a deadline  the sooner, the better.Im very good under pressure, she said. Give me a script and no rehearsal and Im there. Thats me.Which makes Lucca Quinn, her defiantly competitive, quick-witted lawyer on The Good Fight, The Good Wife spinoff on CBS All Access, a perfect fit for the British actress.Set in a liberal black Chicago law firm, The Good Fight rips its stories from the headlines with such rapid-fire ferocity that youd swear its writers were gazing into a crystal ball  turning the weeks political news into sizzling scripts that land with the cast the day before shooting.Not because they havent planned anything, Jumbo said. They write for what they see.They also have no qualms about transforming momentous occasions within their own ranks into entertaining fodder.At the end of Season 2, Lucca, played by a very pregnant Jumbo, unleashed an opera buffa of profanities as she gave birth to her son by her occasional sparring partner and former lover, Colin Morello (Justin Bartha). Season 3 finds Lucca juggling briefs with breast pumps as she struggles to maintain her momentum on the partner track while mastering parenthood.Shes working out what that transition is like, same as Im working out what that transition is like, Jumbo said.In 2015 she was performing Josephine and I, her one-woman show about Josephine Baker, at the Public when Christine Baranski of The Good Wife and the seriess creators, Michelle and Robert King, introduced themselves backstage. A longtime fan, Jumbo geeked out  even more so after the Kings offered her a three-episode arc that was extended throughout the shows final, 2016 season.That summer, while starring in The Taming of the Shrew at Shakespeare in the Park and packing up her apartment to return to London, Jumbo got the call that The Good Fight was on. The offer was impossible to resist.It wasnt just that I loved the show, she said. I wanted to be in something that was ass-kickingly good and I was really proud of.When shes shooting, Jumbo, 33, lives in Brooklyn with her husband, Sean Griffin, a tech developer, and Maximilian, their 11-month-old son. In an interview at a Tribeca photo studio, she spoke about the craziness of art replicating life (and vice versa)  and why she still has hope.Here are edited excerpts from the conversation.When the Kings conceived of The Good Fight, it seemed likely that the show would be set during a Clinton presidency. Then Donald J. Trump won, and the story lines have been uncannily prescient. How do they know? Basically, I think that theyre either spies or wizards, or possibly both, because they just have such an extensive knowledge of what is going on in the world.Last season, the big focus was a path toward impeachment. This season began with the toppling of a founding partner and civil rights leader in a #MeToo scenario.I didnt see that coming at all, but its typical of them. Its like they make you really revere somebody and build him up as a kind of idol and icon, and then tear him down. They want to keep moving the goal-post and shifting the ground beneath you because thats whats happening around us all the time. And the people that you think you can rely on are not always turning out to be the heroes.Doesnt it get rather depressing dissecting Americas political landscape season after season?I think a lot of people, when theyre watching our show, are like, God, things are so terrible. And maybe all my brains dropped out with the baby, but Im so hopeful. There are so many people under 100 that want things to improve, that all the other people eventually have to die. I feel like this sounds really stupid, but I just bounce around in the morning like, Things are going to get better!Youre one of the few crossover characters from The Good Wife. Now that The Good Fight is three seasons in, can you compare the sets?[With The Good Wife], I didnt realize that I was walking into something quite unusual on a TV set in America in terms of a crew that had mainly been together for years, and so had families and histories with each other, and really loved working together. And I think a lot of that vibe rolled onto The Good Fight. I feel like everybodys only just caught up to us because our current regular cast is over 50 percent women and over 50 percent actors of color, and I dont know another show that has that.Your pregnancy was written into your show last season, and that birthing scene was hilarious. Were you close to delivering?I had my son a week and a half after I did that scene, and it was much less dramatic than that, let me tell you. Much, much less swearing, and no mothers-in-law in the room. [For the scene] there was a real doctor advising the actress who was playing the doctor how to put her hands up my gown and feel the bump. Then my son was [in the womb] like, [in a nervous, high-pitched voice] Why are we getting our heart rate up? Is it time? Is it not time? I think Im the only person who had a proper full-on dress rehearsal, which makes me such a stage actress.Do you ever bring your son to the set?I have done, yeah. Everyone is obsessed with him, and Im sure they would have loved it if he could have played my real baby on the show. But we need, like, four sets of twins to make it work, and they would never get him for enough money.You have a long stage career in England and earned an Olivier nomination as Mark Antony in an all-female production of Julius Caesar. That must come in handy when playing a lawyer.No one on our show loves doing court because it can be very long hours, very long days, huge pieces of dialogue and words you have to look up. But Shakespeare is court so I love court. I have a neighbor whos a professor at Brooklyn Law School and I went in to talk to her litigation students in their second year. They had all of the technical ability but they were incredibly nervous about getting up and actually speaking. So I said: Look, I dont know anything about the law but I look like a lawyer. You know everything about the law but you dont know how to look like a lawyer. So Ill teach you how to be a lawyer and you can teach me about the law.I feel like the show is crying out for a nightclub or karaoke scene with you, Christine and Audra McDonald.Oh my god, thats a dream. I think that Audra and Christine may sing together this season. I dont have a Tony, O.K.? And between them, they have 57 Tonys or something. I just sing in the shower.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byMediatorBy Jim RutenbergThe Russian media was having way too much fun last week.They were downright gleeful over new reports that a group of Democrats had used online disinformation in the campaign against Roy Moore, the Republican candidate for Senate in Alabama in 2017.Well, well, well, went the general line in the Russian media, look what we have here.Their reaction was understandable, given the news that American political operatives had tried the same kind of troll operations that United States intelligence officials believe the Russian government used in an attempt to swing the 2016 presidential election to Donald J. Trump.The Russian news outlet Sputnik jumped on the news, saying last week that the Alabama operation seems to cast Democrats Russiagate accusations into further doubt.Also getting in on the action was RT, the Kremlin-financed news organization once known as Russia Today. The only Russian bots to meddle in U.S. elections, the network reported, belonged to Democrat-linked experts.The disinformation campaign in Alabama included a scheme to produce false evidence that Russian Twitter bots were working to elect Mr. Moore. After the revelations first came to light, John Griffing, a former executive director of the Harris County Republican Party in Texas, appeared on RT to go after the Democrats.Ive always been suspicious that the Russia-bot narrative was flimsy and probably made up, Mr. Griffing told RT viewers. Simply because thats the kind of thing the Democratic Party does  they make things up in order to create the basis for an attack on the right wing.In addition to giving Russia new ammunition in its defense against election-meddling allegations, the progressives political caper in Alabama sent a chilling message to the rest of us: Reality-warping attacks are now coming from inside the house.If the trend intensifies, the 2020 presidential campaign will make the media shenanigans of 2016 seem genteel.Sputnik and RT were keying off two articles in The New York Times, which broke the news of the Alabama efforts. The first, by Scott Shane and Alan Blinder in late December, detailed an operation that included the creation of fake Russian Twitter accounts, as well as a phony Facebook page purportedly set up by conservative Alabamians opposed to Mr. Moore, who ended up losing to his Democratic opponent, Doug Jones.One of the people behind that effort, Jonathon Morgan, of the cyber security firm New Knowledge, minimized the effort by saying it was only an experiment to observe how such Russian-style tactics work in real time (though an internal report said the project was seeking to depress turnout for Mr. Moore).The main financial backer of that project, the LinkedIn co-founder Reid Hoffman, disavowed it, saying he did not know the money he had donated to groups affiliated with Democrats would finance such a thing. I want to be unequivocal, he wrote on Medium. There is absolutely no place in our democracy for manipulating facts or using falsehoods to gain political power.Mr. Jones, the politician who benefited from the operation, angrily denounced it and called for a federal investigation. So maybe there was reason to think it was all just a blip.Then came the second Times article, last week, on another shady tactic used against Mr. Moore. This one involved a Facebook page for a fake group of Baptists supporting Mr. Moore as a potential ally in their bid to ban alcohol in Alabama  a surefire way to alienate voters if ever there was one.The phony teetotaling campaign was the work of another group of liberal activists with different financiers, whose identities remain unknown. And it came with an implicit warning: Get used to it.As one of the organizers, the progressive activist Matt Osborne, told The Times, If you dont do it, youre fighting with one hand tied behind your back. Given the way some of Mr. Trumps backers  here and in Russia  have engaged in such tactics, he said, there was a moral imperative to do this.Researchers who have been studying the Russian disinformation tactics have been girding for just such a development.One of the things weve been talking about in the last year is how the real threats going to be when its not just Russia or Iran  nation-states with budgets  but when every single person with an issue starts engaging in this type of manipulative behavior, said Bret Schafer, an analyst at the Alliance for Securing Democracy, a research project at the German Marshall Fund of the United States. Its absolutely awful for democracy.Mr. Schafer had particular reason to be chagrined. New Knowledge helped build the website for the Alliances disinformation-tracking database, Hamilton68, which had monitored suspected Russian-linked accounts, tracking the falsehoods they spread and the discord they tried to sow. (New Knowledge also helped write a report on Russian troll activity released last month by the Senate Intelligence Committee.) The Alabama project, Mr. Schafer told me, undercuts our collective ability to take other countries to task for their deceptive, online behavior.Fight-fire-with-fire reasoning is bubbling up on the left as the social media giants continue to struggle to stop distortion campaigns in real time. It was only after The Times and The Washington Post reported on the Alabama operations that Facebook shut down the suspect accounts.None of this bodes well for the 2020 campaign, which has entered its first stage at a time when analysts in and out of government are still trying to determine the full effect disinformation had in the last presidential election.Kathleen Hall Jamieson, a professor at the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania, has concluded that the Russian activity probably affected the outcome. In Cyber War, her just-published book about the 2016 campaign, she reports that Russia tried to mobilize, demobilize, and shift the sorts of voters that Trump needed to win.If the results of the investigation by the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III confirm her conclusion, some people may be deterred from employing such tactics. On the other hand, nothing spawns copycats like victory.Big questions remain about how to keep American political campaigns from descending into disinformation, barring still-elusive legal or technical remedies, as Ms. Jamieson told me in an interview. How do you make sure its marked off as inappropriate? she said. The real question for 2020 is, what is out of bounds? Is there anything?As a start, I reached out to various expected 2020 players to see if they would eschew such tactics.I was heartened to receive this statement from Senator Cory Booker, Democrat of New Jersey: There is no place in our politics for deceptive tactics that undermine trust in  and the credibility of  our democratic process and stand in contrast to our values.Senator Elizabeth Warrens presidential exploratory committee said, Our campaign doesnt support these kinds of tactics. The campaign manager for Representative Tulsi Gabbards 2020 committee, Rania Batrice, said Ms. Gabbard strongly condemns the use of disinformation.The Republican Party chairwoman, Ronna McDaniel  sounding as if she might be relishing the Democrats turn under the microscope  said, These tactics are shameful.Then there were those whose offices I never heard back from  Bernie Sanders, Kamala Harris, Beto ORourke, Julin Castro, the Democratic Party itself and Mr. Trumps re-election team.The real surprise was former Vice President Joe Biden.Not going to have any comment on that for you, a spokesman said.Maybe Mr. Biden wants to keep his options open.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Alan RappeportWASHINGTON  President Trumps decision to back off his threat to raise tariffs on Chinese goods carries substantial political risk as the president faces increased pressure from Republicans, Democrats and some of his own advisers to win the kind of tough concessions that Beijing has long resisted.Citing substantial progress in talks between the United States and China, Mr. Trump on Sunday evening halted plans to raise tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese goods at the end of this week. On Monday, the president predicted that President Xi Jinping of China would soon join him at Mar-a-Lago, Mr. Trumps Florida resort, for a signing summit.Were getting very, very close, Mr. Trump said at a gathering of governors at the White House.Mr. Trumps optimism has cheered Wall Street and business lobbyists, who have been pushing for a quick end to the trade war. But Democrats and even some Republicans are not so sanguine.Top Democrats, in an effort to outflank Mr. Trump on China, are warning loudly that the Chinese may simply be dangling false promises in hopes of getting the president to end a trade war that is hurting American farmers and damaging the Chinese economy. Some Republicans fear that Mr. Trump may settle for a deal that simply reduces the trade deficit between the two countries and potentially offers relief to a Chinese telecommunication giant, Huawei, which is facing criminal charges in the United States.Its become a real concern that Democrats could use this against him in the 2020 election, Michael Pillsbury, the director of Chinese strategy at the Hudson Institute and a White House adviser, said of the dangers of Mr. Trump cutting a modest trade deal with China.Mr. Trump has positioned his monthslong trade fight with China as necessary to win the biggest deal in history. China has agreed to make some changes to its trading relationship with America, including purchasing more soybeans and natural gas and preventing currency manipulation. The government has also committed to opening up financial services, insurance and car markets, changes the Chinese have previously discussed.But many of the biggest sticking points still remain, including Chinas state subsidization of companies, which gives Chinese firms a competitive advantage. Beijing also still appears to be falling short of the administrations demands to stop what it says is a pattern of cybertheft and to end a requirement that American companies hand over valuable intellectual property as a condition of doing business there, people familiar with the negotiations said.The Chinese are touting a clause in their investment law that would crack down on such transfers of technologies and offering up tougher regulations surrounding patents and copyrights, but some administration officials are skeptical that these changes will go far enough.The Chinese Embassy released a statement through Chinas state news agency, Xinhua, on Monday, saying talks over the weekend were focused on the text of an agreement and that the two sides would continue to push toward an agreement.The Chinese delegation said that substantial progress was made on such specific issues as technology transfer, protection of intellectual property rights, non-tariff barriers, service industry, agriculture and exchange rates, the statement said.Top Democrats have focused on Mr. Trumps desire to reduce the bilateral trade deficit with China and are prepared to call any agreement that is based primarily on purchases of American soybeans, liquid natural gas and other farm products a failure.At the heart of our economic challenges with China is its shirking of market economics, so it is troubling that Donald Trump may settle for a government commitment to buy U.S. agriculture as a means to let China off the hook, said Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon.Senior Republicans are also concerned that the president might soften on China. Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, tweeted on Monday that Mr. Trump should not take a half deal as a good deal and urged the president to demand structural changes that are enforceable.Democrats will have their first formal opportunity to confront the Trump administration directly on its China trade policy on Wednesday when Robert Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, testifies before the House Ways and Means Committee. Mr. Lighthizer, a longtime China hard-liner and the administrations top negotiator, is expected to face tough questioning from Democrats seeking assurances Mr. Trump will not accept a watered-down deal and declare victory.With so many losses, Trump needs a win and any win will suffice  even one that is just Chinese promises of future purchases without meaningful, structural reform, said Representative Lloyd Doggett, Democrat of Texas, who sits on the Ways and Means Committee.Mr. Trump has already started to signal his political concerns publicly. During a news conference this month at the White House, the president suggested that he would invite Democratic leaders to participate in negotiations with China so that they would not be able to undercut whatever agreement he reaches.Any deal I make with China, Schumer is going to stand up and say, Oh, it shouldve been better, Mr. Trump said, referring to Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the minority leader. Thats called politics.An aide to Mr. Schumer said that no invitation has been offered.Last week, Mr. Trump even embraced Senator Bernie Sanders, independent of Vermont, on trade. The president said that Mr. Sanders, who is making his second presidential run as a Democrat, tends to agree with him on the issue and that Mr. Sanders is tough on trade.While Mr. Sanders has praised some of Mr. Trumps moves on trade, he has also been critical of his negotiating approach in some cases, and has opposed the Trump administrations steel and aluminum tariffs on Canada, Mexico and Europe.Mr. Pillsbury said that Mr. Trumps campaign advisers have been gathering opposition research files on potential 2020 rivals and carefully taking note of what certain people, such as Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, who is considering a run, have been saying about China.Mr. Brown was one of three top Democrats  along with Mr. Schumer and Mr. Wyden  who sent a letter to Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, this month urging the administration to stay aggressive and ensure that China commits to verifiable, enforceable reforms. The letter was sent after reports that Mr. Mnuchin wanted to scale back Chinese tariffs in advance of a deal.I will wait to judge the outcome of the trade talks until I know whats been agreed to, Mr. Brown said in a statement. But its imperative that the White House secures an enforceable deal that includes long-term structural reforms to stop Chinas unfair trade practices and ensures American workers can compete on a level playing field.Officials from both countries have continued to be vague about the details of the progress, leading to speculation that China is just repackaging old promises as new concessions. China experts and business lobbyists say that the Chinese government has been carefully watching the shifting political dynamics in the United States, along with Mr. Trumps continuing legal turmoil, as it determines how to navigate the trade war in an environment with Democrats controlling more power in Washington.In some cases, newly empowered Democrats have become an asset to the administrations China hawks, Mr. Lighthizer and Peter Navarro, who have been pressing Mr. Trump not to cut a modest deal and roll back tariffs to please Wall Street.Mr. Schumer has long been critical of Chinas trade practices that have been harmful to the rural parts of New York State and he has been a vocal critic of Chinas history of currency manipulation. Speaker Nancy Pelosis return as the leader of the House of Representatives was also met with wariness in China. She has for years been outspoken about Chinas human rights record and has met on multiple occasions with the Dalai Lama, the exiled Tibetan spiritual leader vilified by China.Because of that long history, Mr. Trumps advisers fear that Democrats in Congress will have more credibility when criticizing Mr. Trumps eventual China agreement even if it does not require congressional approval.The Democrats are going to use this against him, said Craig Allen, the president of the U.S.-China Business Council. As we go into the election cycle, it is natural and part of our national tradition that one side criticizes the other for China.Mr. Allen noted that political protest in the United States over China goes back to the countrys inception, with the Boston Tea Party triggered by anger over imports of Chinese tea and that the anti-China sentiment tends to bubble up every four years. In 2012, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, then the Democratic majority leader, called for United States Olympic uniforms to be burned when it emerged that they were made in China.There are also signs that Mr. Trump could face backlash from his own party if he is too conciliatory. During his meeting on Friday with a Chinese delegation in the Oval Office, Mr. Trump raised eyebrows among Republicans when he suggested that relief for Huawei, which has been charged with stealing intellectual property and impeding an investigation into the telecom companys attempt to evade economic sanctions on Iran, could be part of the trade deal.After Mr. Trumps comment, Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas, tweeted that Huawei is a serious national security threat and a Trojan Horse for the Chinese Communist Party. And Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, dismissed a tweet by Sonny Perdue, the agriculture secretary, for touting Chinas commitment to buy an extra 10 million metric tons of soybeans and said that any deal that allows China to keep stealing trade secrets will not be a success.The blowback from both directions may leave Mr. Trump little choice but to keep the threat of tariffs alive so that he can continue to claim hes being tough on China, analysts said. In a January interview with The New York Times, Mr. Trump acknowledged that some of the $250 billion worth of tariffs could be made permanent.On Monday, as Mr. Trump headed to Hanoi, Vietnam, for a meeting with the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, he tweeted: Relationship between our two Countries is very strong. I have therefore agreed to delay U.S. tariff hikes. Lets see what happens?An earlier version of this article misspelled the name of the North Korean leader. It is Kim Jong-un, not Kim Jung Un.Ana Swanson contributed reporting.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBooks NewsBy Concepcin de LenThe 2019 PEN America Literary Service Award will be given to Bob Woodward, The Washington Post editor known most recently for Fear: Trump in the White House, one of the biggest political books of 2018 with nearly two million copies sold.Woodward has set the standard for dogged and objective reporting and gripping storytelling, said Suzanne Nossel, the chief executive officer of PEN America, in a statement. His work has helped fortify American democracy for decades.Woodward played a central role in bringing to light Richard Nixons role during the Watergate scandal through his reporting for The Washington Post and wrote a number of books on the subject, including All the Presidents Men, written with Carl Bernstein. He pioneered in the use of anonymous sources, which allowed him to report on details that might not otherwise have become public. He has also tackled a number of other presidents including George W. Bush, Bill Clinton and Barack Obama.The PEN America Literary Gala, which will be held at the American Museum of Natural History in New York on May 21, will also recognize Scholastic chief executive officer Richard Robinson, who has led the company for more than 40 years. Scholastic has informed the next generation and inspired them to be empathetic, engaged citizens, read PEN Americas statement.Last year, Stephen King received the Service Award, and past winners have included Margaret Atwood, Toni Morrison and J.K. Rowling.Two other award recipients will be announced in the coming months, including for the PEN/Barbey Freedom to Write Award, which will honor a writer or artist persecuted for their work, and the PEN/Toni and James C. Goodale Freedom of Expression Courage Award, which celebrates dauntless exercises of free expression. John Oliver of Last Week Tonight on HBO will host the event.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook and Twitter (@nytimesbooks), sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Nicholas CaseyIn his bid to maintain power over a crumbling nation, President Nicols Maduro of Venezuela has returned to a strategy that has served him well in the past: Hold tight and wait out his opponents.Its what the president did in 2014, when the opposition barricaded streets to try to topple him. He used the same strategy three years later when his effort to nullify the countrys opposition-controlled legislature set off protests that petered out after four months.And now, as the oppositions latest attempt to end his presidency drags into its third month, Mr. Maduro appears to be digging in once again  weathering sanctions on the countrys oil industry, isolation from more than 50 countries, a parallel government set up to challenge him, a steady trickle of military desertions and a days-long national power failure unlike any the country had seen.At the same time, the United States, which has been pushing to oust Mr. Maduro, gambled on a strategy of sanctions and other pressure that it thought would work quickly, but hasnt.This week, Mr. Maduro was even taking the offensive.On Thursday, Venezuelan intelligence agents stormed the home of Roberto Marrero, the chief of staff of the opposition leader Juan Guaid, taking Mr. Marrero into custody on charges of being part of a terrorist cell.Mr. Marrero hasnt been seen since.The government is doing everything it can to force a sense of exasperation with Guaid and force people to lose faith in him, said Geoff Ramsey, assistant director for Venezuela at the Washington Office on Latin America, a human rights group.The surge of support for Guaid came within weeks, he continued. They know it can vanish just as quickly.Since Mr. Guaid returned to Venezuela on March 4, the two men, who both claim to be the countrys rightful leader, seem to be playing a kind of waiting game.At one point, it seemed as if Mr. Guaid had the upper hand; the number of countries recognizing him over Mr. Maduro as the countrys rightful president was growing, and the opposition said it was courting the countrys military to take its side.But many believe Mr. Guaids momentum has slowed.Around Caracas, Mr. Guaids message seems to be hitting a wall among many whose main concern is finding food and water amid the countrys continuing economic crisis.Each time they hold another march, theres no transportation and I have to pay for a taxi or a motorcycle to get to work  I lose, said Gabriel Rondn, a 25-year-old in the neighborhood of El Hatillo who has a job in a struggling cafe. In the barrios, no one knows Guaid. I know his name, thats about it.Another problem for Mr. Guaid is the strategy of his chief patron, the United States.The Trump administration gambled that a barrage of sanctions in January and February would undermine Mr. Maduro so quickly that his armed forces would turn on him and install Mr. Guaid as president.In addition to the January oil sanctions, the United States targeted governors, generals, intelligence agency heads, the state oil company and a Russian bank partly owned by Venezuela; it also canceled visas for dozens of friends and family members of Mr. Maduro.On Friday, the United States issued new sanctions targeting the countrys development bank and other institutions it owns.But by using all of its ammunition at once to aid Mr. Guaid, the United States has little leverage against Mr. Maduro now that the conflict is dragging on.Maduro now realizes the U.S. has played all its big cards and hes started to look into a medium-term strategy, said Christopher Sabatini, a lecturer at Columbia University who studies the region.While the economic sanctions will continue to cripple Venezuelas crumbling economy, Mr. Maduro appears to be trying to evade them.While United States imports of Venezuelan oil fell to zero this week, according to government statistics, Mr. Maduro is turning to other countries to buy the countrys oil, even if at cheaper rates.Mr. Maduro, so far, has also been able to hold onto his chief diplomatic patrons, China and Russia, both of whom are suspicious of United States intentions in the region and are owed billions in debt from Mr. Maduro, who pays much of it with barrels of oil.A recent national blackout this month provided what may be a road map for how Mr. Maduro can deflect criticism in the coming months as the situation in his country deteriorates.The state power companys union said a fire had caused the power failure. But Mr. Maduro returned to a familiar trope: A cyberattack, organized from Houston and Chicago, was responsible, he said.His government, meanwhile, has used the hawkish statements of Mr. Trump, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, and John R. Bolton, the national security adviser, to back up Mr. Maduros claim that the United States is behind a plot to overthrow him on state-controlled media where Mr. Guaid has no say in coverage.The arrest of Mr. Marrero, Mr. Guaids chief of staff, sent a particular chill through the opposition and raised the question of what comes next.Mr. Marrero was arrested in a pre-dawn raid on his home in which Nstor Reverol, the countrys interior minister, said he was caught with war weapons. Opposition officials said the arms were planted by the government.This shows the dictatorship doesnt care what the international community thinks, said Delsa Solrzano, an opposition lawmaker who is close to Mr. Guaid.She said it was particularly troubling that the arrest came as the former Chilean president Michelle Bachelet, the United Nations high commissioner for human rights, continues to investigate abuses by Mr. Maduros government.Mr. Maduro tried to impress a sense of normalcy this week in Venezuela, releasing a cellphone video of himself driving in the state of Aragua, greeting a crowd of supporters from behind the wheel.It was part of an effort to promote Venezuelas automobile industry, which once served General Motors and Ford, but which has been largely decimated in the economic collapse.Mr. Maduro announced the relaunch of a bus called the Yutong, manufactured with the help of Chinese investment.Together we can reach the big goals of the homeland! Mr. Maduro wrote on Twitter.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byPresident Trump has tried to get the Federal Reserve to share his love of low interest rates. Now hes ratcheting up the pressure.By Binyamin AppelbaumMr. Appelbaum is a member of the editorial board.President Trump, who craves low interest rates, has tried to bend the Federal Reserve to his will by tweeting insults and offering unsolicited advice. He threatened to fire Chairman Jerome H. Powell. He invited Mr. Powell to dinner. None of it worked as well as he would like. In the presidents view, high interest rates still are smothering economic growth. So on Friday, Mr. Trump tried something new. He said that he planned to nominate one of his economic advisers, Stephen Moore, to an open seat on the Feds board of governors. Notwithstanding his public outbursts, Mr. Trump previously has nominated six people to the Feds board, and all were well-qualified candidates who might have been chosen by any Republican president. With the choice of Mr. Moore, however, Mr. Trump crossed a line.Mr. Moore has repeatedly staked out public positions on questions of monetary policy over the last decade. His record is best characterized as inconsistent with any particular set of economic principles, but reliably faithful to the short-term interest of the Republican Party.During the Obama administration, he warned that the Fed was sowing the seeds of hyperinflation. Zero interest rates havent helped the economy, Mr. Moore told The Washington Post in 2015. Following Mr. Trumps election, Mr. Moore executed a quick U-turn. He began to insist that lower interest rates were just what the economy needed. Mr. Trump reportedly settled on Mr. Moore after he was shown an article Mr. Moore co-wrote earlier this month making that case.Mr. Moore has not argued that he changed his mind because he realized he was wrong, or because the facts changed. Indeed, on another question of public policy, he has maintained a politically convenient position despite the accumulation of facts to the contrary. He is a stalwart evangelist for the unsupported belief that tax cuts cure slow growth.The state of Kansas took Mr. Moores advice on fiscal policy in 2013, adopting a set of tax cuts recommended by Mr. Moore and his longtime collaborator Arthur Laffer. The two men promised a near immediate increase in economic growth. Instead, the states economy languished and the state government fell into a funding crisis. In the course of the subsequent debate, the editorial page editor of The Kansas City Star announced that Mr. Moore had misstated so many facts that she would no longer publish his contributions in the paper.There is a legitimate debate to be had about the level of interest rates. Many economists, both liberals and conservatives, shared Mr. Trumps concerns about the Feds move toward higher rates last year. The Fed itself has decided to suspend further rate increases.But that is no reason to let Mr. Trump install a loyalist at the Fed. The public interest is best served by appointing thoughtful and experienced policymakers to the Feds board, and then standing back and letting them do their best. Politicians, always looking to the next election, tend to want faster economic growth in the near term without particular regard for the long-term consequences. Mr. Trump reportedly has dismissed concerns about the rise of the federal debt, for example, by telling advisers, Yeah, but I wont be here.The Feds job is to keep its eye on the horizon and maintain sustainable economic growth.Mr. Moore is not the man for that job.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Binyamin Appelbaum joined the Times editorial board in 2019. From 2010 to 2019, he was a Washington correspondent for The Times, covering the Federal Reserve and other aspects of economic policy.He has been a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in public service.  @BCAppelbaum  Facebook Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byIve followed the investigation closely. Heres what Ill be looking for. By Quinta JurecicMs. Jurecic is the managing editor of Lawfare. Any week now, any day now  so the news reports go  the special counsels office will file the Mueller report.It will round out a trilogy. In 1974, to inform its impeachment proceedings, Congress received what became known as the road map, a terse document from the office of the Watergate special prosecutor Leon Jaworski detailing evidence of wrongdoing by President Richard Nixon. In 1998, another investigator submitted a report on a presidents potentially impeachable offenses to Congress: a narrative from the independent counsel Kenneth Starr of Bill Clintons misconduct.Following Justice Department regulations, the special counsel Robert Mueller will submit a confidential report to the attorney general, Bill Barr. Mr. Barr will decide how much of it to share with Congress and with the world at large.Assuming that some significant portion of the report becomes public, and that it provides an additional factual record beyond what we already know, the question will quickly become how to identify any smoking guns. Ive spent the last year and a half following the investigation. Heres a partial list of what Ill be looking for:In November 2015, according to Mr. Mueller, Michael Cohen, then Mr. Trumps lawyer, was put in touch with a Russian man who promised Mr. Cohen political synergy and repeatedly proposed a meeting between Mr. Trump and the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, to help with efforts to construct a Trump Tower Moscow. In January 2016, the office of a high-level Russian official  most likely, according to reports, of Mr. Putins spokesman Dmitri Peskov  reached out to Mr. Cohen about the project, and efforts on it continued at least into the summer of 2016.How closely were Mr. Trump and his children involved in the Trump Tower Moscow negotiations, and over what period? How much did they know of or encourage Mr. Cohens contacts with the Russian government  including tentative plans for a meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Putin? How did the Trump family and campaign understand the connection between the Moscow project and Mr. Trumps political ambitions?Mr. Mueller estimated in a court filing that Trump Tower Moscow could have generated hundreds of millions of dollars from Russian sources in licensing fees and other revenues  an unusually large profit for the Trump Organization. Why was the number so atypically high? Dirt on ClintonIn spring 2016, according to the special counsel, a professor linked to the Russian government told the Trump campaign foreign policy adviser George Papadopoulos that Russia had dirt on Hillary Clinton in the form of thousands of emails. Around this time, the special counsels indictment of Russian military intelligence officials shows that the Russian government had hacked into networks and accounts belonging to the Democratic Party and the Clinton campaign, and would soon begin coordinating with WikiLeaks to disseminate the stolen information. In June, Donald Trump Jr. met with a Kremlin-linked lawyer at Trump Tower in New York in what seems to have been a failed effort to get similar dirt.Who else in the campaign did Mr. Papadopoulos tell about his scoop, and how high did that knowledge go? Did Donald Trump Jr. inform his father of his plans before the meeting? Roger Stone and WikiLeaksMr. Muellers indictment of the Trump adviser Roger Stone alleges that Mr. Stone worked throughout the summer of 2016 to get in touch with WikiLeaks and became aware of the organizations plans to disclose hacked information. Mr. Cohen claimed in his testimony to Congress that he was in the room when Mr. Stone informed Mr. Trump that WikiLeaks was planning a massive dump of emails that would damage Hillary Clintons campaign.Was Mr. Stone coordinating with the campaign in his efforts to get information from WikiLeaks? How much did Mr. Trump know about what Mr. Stone had found out? And who in the campaign, if anyone, might have been aware of separate efforts by the Republican operative Peter Smith to obtain additional Clinton emails from sources Mr. Smith believed were Russian hackers?Flynns Promises to Moscow The national security adviser Michael Flynn was fired just 24 days into his tenure over fallout from his transition-period contacts with the Russian ambassador at the time, Sergey Kislyak  a matter about which he later pleaded guilty to lying to federal investigators. When he promised Mr. Kislyak that Mr. Trump would lift sanctions on Russia imposed by the departing Obama administration, was Mr. Flynn freelancing or was he acting on the instructions of someone higher?Russian Influence Operations Almost every case that Mr. Mueller has filed has illuminated a different facet of what appears to be a systematic, long-running effort by the government of Russia to reach out to Mr. Trumps world. Its clear that the Kremlin was attempting to gain access and influence. Was it also out-and-out working to recruit agents within the Trump Organization and campaign?On our side of the Atlantic, to what extent was that outreach welcomed and reciprocated by the Trump team, and to what extent was Mr. Trump a passive beneficiary? Did the Trump Organization and campaign understand and respond to those instances as manifestations of a systematic effort by the Russian government or as unrelated connections with unconnected Russians?Obstruction of JusticeMr. Mueller has also reportedly conducted an investigation into potential obstruction of justice by the president: possible interference with the special counsels efforts, and with the F.B.I.s before that. Mr. Barr, among others, has argued that action authorized by the Constitution  like dismissing the F.B.I. director  by definition cannot constitute obstruction. Will the report sidestep these tricky legal questions by showing efforts by Mr. Trump to derail the inquiry that fall plainly outside the scope of presidential authority? To what extent does the obstruction investigation overlap with the collusion investigation  meaning that the special counsel and the F.B.I. understood the presidents apparent efforts at obstruction as part of the troubling pattern of coordination with the Russian government that incited the investigation in the first place?What proportion of the Mueller report becomes public will hinge on many factors: how much classified information and grand jury material shielded from public disclosure it has; how much of it is arguably protected by executive privilege; to what extent it details criminal conduct, and to what extent Mr. Barr may reasonably argue that the Justice Department has an interest in protecting the privacy of those who are innocent.The Watergate road map first became available to the public in 2018, when a judge ordered it unsealed almost 45 years after it was handed over to Congress. The Starr Report, in contrast, was released within two days of its transmission to the legislature. With any luck, the time frame for release of the Mueller report will be closer to the latter than to the former.Quinta Jurecic (@qjurecic) is the managing editor of Lawfare. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Charlie SavageWASHINGTON  President Trumps plan to spend billions of dollars more on his border wall than Congress approved involves more than his invocation of emergency powers to redirect military construction funds. Before spending any of that money, Mr. Trump first intends to tap $2.5 billion in other Defense Department funds under a different claim of executive authority.The Pentagon has not yet determined which programs will be cut to meet Mr. Trumps demands. The acting defense secretary, Patrick M. Shanahan, told reporters over the weekend that he had set in motion a process to identify candidates, but had made no decisions.I just want to make a point of this, Mr. Shanahan added. We are following the law, using the rules, and were not bending the rules, O.K.?No. Mr. Trump is planning to tap different pots of money in sequence, and only the fourth and last pot involves the emergency-powers statute. Before reaching that last pot, Mr. Trump plans to spend the roughly $1.4 billion that Congress approved for new border barriers in the recent spending deal and then about $600 million from a Treasury Department asset-forfeiture fund.The third pot of potential wall money would be $2.5 billion drawn from a military counterdrug account under a different statute  one that does not involve any emergency declaration. In it, Congress has authorized the Pentagon to support other agencies counternarcotics efforts by constructing roads or fences and installation of lighting to block drug-smuggling corridors across international boundaries of the United States.On its face, the statute appears to authorize spending only for construction. If it cannot be stretched to encompass land acquisition, the $2.5 billion would most likely be useful only for building barriers on property the government already owns. Either way, time is short. Mr. Shanahan said that the money that could be reprogrammed for counterdrug is money that would have to be spent in this year. The fiscal year ends on Sept. 30.No. When Congress passed the most recent Pentagon spending law last September, it appropriated about $517 million for counternarcotics support activities. Of that amount, about $100 million remains readily available for border barrier spending, an administration official said.The Trump administration plans to use the counterdrug account as a temporary way station for more than $2 billion in funds taken from unrelated military programs. The administration will first transfer the funds into the counterdrug account, and then treat them as money that can be used for border barriers.But the Defense Department has not yet decided which other programs to drain of their funding.One military official, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal deliberations, said the Pentagon had been scouring its $700 billion budget in search of accounts with unspent funds to target. For example, the official said, an Army personnel account designated for paying bonuses to new recruits appears to have excess money because the service has been falling short of its recruiting goals lately.But reaching the total will require some painful decisions.All of this money has been assigned for other purposes, Mr. Shanahan said, adding, It really is a trade-off.A federal law, the Anti-Deficiency Act, generally makes it a crime for an official to spend money on something in excess of what Congress has appropriated for that purpose.But the Trump administration says it can lawfully move other military funding into the Pentagons counterdrug account under general transfer authority, a power Congress has given to the defense secretary. This power gives Mr. Shanahan, under certain conditions, the flexibility to move up to $4 billion around from one purpose to another.But there are certain limits. Among them, it can be used only on an item that is higher priority than its original purpose and meets a standard of unforeseen military requirements and in no case where the item for which funds are requested has been denied by the Congress. This raises the question of whether Mr. Trumps desire to spend more on his wall than Congress appropriated qualifies under that standard.Martin Lederman, a Georgetown University law professor who helped run the Justice Departments Office of Legal Counsel during the Obama administration, said that he had found no example of litigation in which a court had tested such arcane language and conditions in the transfer law, leaving few guideposts for how far the administration can stretch it.Maybe. A deluge of lawsuits are asking judges to block Mr. Trumps executive actions on wall spending. A lawsuit filed by a coalition of 16 states, for example, includes the accusation that Mr. Trump exceeded his legal authority in seeking to divert the funding for the military counterdrug account to use on border barriers.The general transfer authority provision says Mr. Shanahan must notify Congress promptly of all such transfers. Another military official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the Defense Department had scheduled a meeting of senior officials on Thursday to iron out where redirected funds will be taken from, and planned to take those recommendations to the appropriations committees in Congress on Friday.As a matter of constitutional law, if Congress has given the executive branch the authority to redirect funds, the appropriations committees cannot veto any particular exercise of that power. But as a matter of political reality, executive branch officials generally heed committee objections. The idea is to preserve a harmonious relationship with appropriators who could slash their next budget.Especially because the House is controlled by Democrats, this norm appears likely to put the Pentagon in a bind. The House Appropriations Committee chairwoman, Representative Nita M. Lowey of New York, has expressed deep skepticism about Mr. Trumps plan, blasting him for ignoring Congresss refusal to fund his wasteful border wall, which she called a political vanity project.The Defense Department declined to address what it will do if congressional appropriators tell it not to move the money.Helene Cooper, Thomas Gibbons-Neff and Eric Schmitt contributed reporting.Follow Charlie Savage on Twitter: @charlie_savage.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael D. ShearCALEXICO, Calif.  President Trump traveled to this small border town two hours east of San Diego on Friday to highlight what he and his aides say is an out-of-control crisis caused by a surge of Central American families who have overwhelmed law enforcement facilities at the border.Just a day after retreating from his threat to shut down the entire border with Mexico, Mr. Trump accepted a plaque from border agents and sheriffs in front of a 30-foot-tall section of border wall  the physical embodiment of his immigration agenda  and met with border officials, lawmakers and administration officials at the Border Patrol station here.Were really making progress at letting people know this is an emergency, the president said. Its a colossal surge and its overwhelming our immigration system and we cant let that happen.Critics argue that the wall is not a solution to the surge of families that have arrived in recent months since most of the families are not trying to sneak into the country undetected. On the contrary, most are seeking Border Patrol agents to turn themselves in, either at the ports of entry or between them.But Mr. Trump insisted on Friday that his efforts to seal off the border from undocumented immigrants and asylum seekers was necessary because we dont have room. That means you cant take em.I dont think anyone has ever expressed it like that but I am expressing it like that, Mr. Trump added. When its full, its full.Asked on Thursday night why the president was not using the national emergency he recently declared to seek funds to provide humanitarian relief to the families who have been apprehended recently, Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of homeland security, conceded that the focus on the wall is, partly, a stunt.Well, I think part of that is just a  its an optic, she told Chris Cuomo, the host of Cuomo Prime Time on CNN. To have the president stand in front of the wall indicates immediately to any viewer that hes at the border. But I think his message will be about the dual crisis and how we need Congress to act, to give us the authorities to address.Mr. Trump, however, hailed what he called the tremendous impact of the wall in Calexico and said that his administration expected to build 400 miles worth of wall in the next two years.In fact, the small section of wall that Mr. Trump stood in front of  next to a field of solar panels  is not evidence that the president is building the wall he repeatedly called for during his 2016 presidential campaign but merely an upgrade to an existing section of fencing. The two-mile section was completed in October.[Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]Weeks after declaring a national emergency at the border because Congress refused to fund construction of his border wall, Mr. Trump recently threatened to close the legal ports of entry between Mexico and the United States  potentially disrupting billions of dollars worth of trade and halting the travel of a half-million people each day.But on the eve of his trip here, Mr. Trump backed down in the face of hard criticism from the business community and top officials in his own party. Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader, predicted that a complete border shutdown would have a potentially catastrophic economic impact on the country.Mr. Trump responded on Thursday by initially saying he would give Mexico a year to stop Central American migrants from traversing Mexico on their way to the United States. He added that if Mexico did not do its part, he would first impose tariffs on Mexican cars before shutting down the border.Later in the day, Mr. Trump denied that he had put off a border shutdown for a year, saying that it could still happen if he decided that Mexico was not doing enough to keep migrants from traveling to the United States.Well start with the tariffs and see what happens, he said.In his visit here, Mr. Trump thanked Mexico for deporting migrants at its southern border, which he said they have never done before in three decades, and suggested he had delayed closing the border because of their heightened efforts.But it is false that Mexico only recently began enforcing its southern border at Mr. Trumps urging, according to data, experts and the Mexican government. Marcelo Ebrard, Mexicos foreign minister, told reporters on Tuesday that Mexico had been consistent in its immigration policies.It deported 40,000 to 190,000 migrants every year from 2011 to 2016, data from Segob, Mexicos internal affairs agency, shows. In 2016, Mexico deported nearly 150,000 migrants from Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala compared with 107,000 deportations of migrants from those three countries in 2018. In the first two months of 2019, Mexico deported more than 13,000 migrants from the countries.Contrary to Mr. Trumps repeated claims this week, Mexicos immigration laws are not harsher or stronger than the United States; illegal crossing are decriminalized in Mexico and considered a minor offense. Experts said they were not aware of any changes in the laws or enforcement practices.On the contrary, the discourse of President Lpez Obrador has been more humanitarian than that of the former president, granting work permits and making efforts to find last-minute shelters, said Karla A. Valenzuela, a professor at Ibero-American University in Mexico City who specializes in migration.Dr. Valenzuela said an uptick in detentions and removals in recent weeks was not necessarily indicative of intensified enforcement, but rather more linked to increased flows from Central America.Meanwhile, the presidents re-election campaign released a video on Friday blasting Democrats for their position on the border, a clear indication that Mr. Trump intends to use the issue of border security for his political benefit, no matter the facts on the ground.The video shows leading Democratic presidential candidates, including Beto ORourke, Senator Kamala Harris and Senator Elizabeth Warren, mocking the idea of a wall at the border.We do not need any walls, Mr. ORourke is shown saying. The headline in the video says, bluntly: Democrats do not want to keep Americans safe and adds: Its time for Democrats to stop playing political games with national security.A response from the Democratic National Committee assailed the presidents visit as nothing more than a photo opportunity to try and build nonexistent support for his unnecessary and ineffective border wall.Instead of doing anything to address the issues that matter most to the people of Calexico, Trump is actually making things worse, the committee said.Linda Qiu in Washington contributed reporting.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byIts like someone is running around sticking their finger in peoples eyes and Im an eye doctor.By Maeve HigginsContributing Opinion WriterMark Doss, a supervising lawyer at the International Refugee Assistance Project, pulled an all-nighter on Jan. 27, 2017, and his work life has not been the same since. On that day two years ago, his client Hameed Darweesh, an Iraqi who had worked primarily as an interpreter on behalf of the United States government for 10 years, was the first person detained at Kennedy Airport under President Trumps executive order barring immigrants from seven predominantly Muslim countries, including Iraq.Images of immigration lawyers huddled together over laptops on airport floors across the country made global news. Nineteen hours and a habeas corpus petition titled Darweesh v. Trump later, Mr. Darweesh was the first detainee to be released. Mr. Doss was able to comfort his weeping client at baggage claim. When youre an immigrant to the United States, you come to rely on a selection of people you never expected to need as guides. The co-worker who explains that aluminum is both spelled and pronounced incorrectly here, the waitress who advises against ordering that second cold brew and, crucially, the immigration lawyer who can push open the door to a new life, a whole country. I moved here five years ago in a relatively straightforward way, but one that still involved much paperwork, expense and anxiety. Amanda Gupta, who specializes in visas for artists and entertainers, was my lawyer. Its because of her I get to live my own peculiar American dream, which is to have a comedy career and drink as much cold brew as I can before my heart explodes.That first travel ban, and each subsequent one, made my stomach lurch, as I imagined not being allowed back into the place I belong. And since that chaotic weekend two years ago, I have wondered what life has been like for immigration lawyers  people whose livelihoods depend on getting others through a door that was only ever ajar and is now in danger of slamming shut.As the administration hacks away at immigrants rights and rains down policy changes, immigration requests that would usually have been approved are denied, many lawyers told me. They are receiving requests for further evidence that are baffling, with precedents continuously blurring. Any way the government can have a moment of gotcha they do and they will, Ms. Gupta said. If they can get you out of the country, they will. John Khosravi, an immigration lawyer in Los Angeles, agrees. These past two years its like someone is running around sticking their finger in peoples eyes and Im an eye doctor, he said. Sure, business is good, but those arent the injuries I want to treat. On his podcast The Immigration Lawyers Podcast, he urges his colleagues to have a Plan B and to save their money for a rainy day. Mr. Khosravi is Iranian-American, and when he started practicing nearly a decade ago, all of his clients were Iranian. Since then, he has diversified and now has clients from around the world. Had I just been starting out when the ban came down, that would have been lights out, just no way, he said.For Lauren Blodgett, a staff lawyer at Safe Passage Project, the past two years have seen her definition of success change. She has represented children seeking asylum who were separated from a parent at the border, per the policy put in place by this administration last year. She said that even if her clients are denied a chance to stay in the United States, its crucial to her to help them feel heard and even loved throughout the process. They will remember their case for the rest of their lives, she said, adding that its a privilege to get to do this kind of difficult work. She has sometimes had to tell 8- or 9-year-olds that she honestly has no idea whether they will see their parents again.What, I asked, could one possibly do to unwind after a workday that involved those conversations? Twice a month, Ms. Blodgett goes to a dance party that takes place from 6 to 9 a.m. We dance and then, some days, I go to straight to court, she said. I bring my suit and change in the bathroom.At the end of our conversation, I asked her whether she ever feels hopeless, and she looked at me surprised, the same way I looked at her when she told me she voluntarily goes to early-morning raves. This work is an opportunity to turn your rage and anger and disgust into action, she said.Mr. Doss married last year and spent the days before his wedding finalizing a waiver application for a woman stranded in Yemen because of the travel ban to be reunited with her children in the United States. His wifes brother, a graphic designer in Jordan, was denied a visitors visa, so he could not be with them on their wedding day. Its heartbreaking, he told me, particularly for his new in-laws, but his perspective quickly broadened. For my clients from Syria or Yemen or Libya who are trying to reunite with their loved ones in the United States, theyre indefinitely banned. He worries that these separated families have been forgotten about, lost in the mix of everything else that has happened in the past two years.The number of globally displaced people has hit a record high, and last year the Trump administration set the lowest cap on the number of refugees who can be resettled in the United States since Congress passed the Refugee Act in 1980. I asked Mr. Doss what his clients, refugees who have made it through, feel about arriving in a country run by people who do not seem to want them here. They are often fleeing from governments that have persecuted them, but they have a deep love for the country, he explained. So theyre able to separate the government from the people. Most Americans, when theyre face to face, are kind and caring. The phone line went quiet for a second and I worried we had been disconnected, until he cleared his throat and added, I think.Maeve Higgins is the author of Maeve in America: Essays by a Girl From Somewhere Else and a contributing opinion writer.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisBy David E. SangerNearly two years into his presidency and more than six months after his historic summit meeting with Kim Jong-un of North Korea, President Trump finds himself essentially back where he was at the beginning in achieving the ambitious goal of getting Mr. Kim to relinquish his nuclear arsenal.That was the essential message of Mr. Kims annual New Years televised speech, where he reiterated that international sanctions must be lifted before North Korea will give up a single weapon, dismantle a single missile site or stop producing nuclear material.The list of recent North Korean demands was a clear indicator of how the summit meeting in Singapore last June altered the optics of the relationship more than the reality. Those demands were very familiar from past confrontations: that all joint military training between the United States and South Korea be stopped, that American nuclear and military capability within easy reach of the North be withdrawn, and that a peace treaty ending the Korean War be completed.Its fair to say that not much has changed, although we now have more clarity regarding North Koreas bottom line, Evans J.R. Revere, a veteran American diplomat and former president of the Korea Society, wrote in an email.Pyongyang refused to accept the United States definition of denuclearization in Singapore, he wrote. To the United States, that means the North gives up its entire nuclear arsenal; in the Norths view, it includes a reciprocal pullback of any American ability to threaten it with nuclear weapons. The two competing visions of denuclearization have not changed since then.Mr. Trump and Mike Pompeo, the secretary of state, who is supposed to turn Mr. Trumps enthusiasms into diplomatic achievements, dispute such conclusions. They note that the tone of one of the worlds fiercest armed standoffs has improved. It has, and both leaders say they want to meet again.In a tweet on Tuesday night, Mr. Trump cited Mr. Kims offers not to produce or proliferate weapons, without mentioning the many caveats. He went on to say that he looked forward to meeting with Chairman Kim who realizes so well that North Korea possesses great economic potential!Mr. Kims message, delivered in the style of a fireside chat from what appeared to be his library, had none of the old-style threats of turning Seoul into a sea of fire or striking the United States with a nuclear sword of justice.It was full of olive branches. The toughest Mr. Kim got was a warning that if the U.S. does not keep its promises and continues with sanctions and pressure against North Korea, then we, too, have no choice but to seek a new path for our countrys sovereignty.Mr. Trump, for his part, has never returned to his 2017 warning that any hostile moves by the North would be met by a fire and fury like the world has never seen.He swung to the other extreme, declaring after Singapore that the nuclear threat from the North was over  a statement even his most loyal aides have not repeated  and that he and one of the worlds most notorious dictators fell in love.By some measures there has been modest progress. It has been 13 months since the North tested a nuclear weapon or a long-range missile, a change that Mr. Trump and Mr. Pompeo cite as the first fruits of what some officials now concede will be a long diplomatic push.Relations between the two Koreas are warming, though there is considerable evidence that Mr. Kim sees his outreach to President Moon Jae-in of South Korea as a way to split the United States from its longtime ally.But Mr. Trumps strategic goal, from the moment he vowed to solve the North Korea problem rather than repeat the mistakes of past presidents, has been to end the North Korean nuclear and missile threat, not suspend it in place.Mr. Trump dispatched his first secretary of state, Rex W. Tillerson, to Seoul in March 2017 to declare that a mere nuclear freeze would not be enough. Back then, Mr. Tillerson declared there would be no negotiations, and certainly no lifting of sanctions, until the Norths dismantling had begun. A nuclear freeze would essentially enshrine a comprehensive set of capabilities, he argued.The decision Mr. Trump must make now is whether to backtrack on the objective of zero North Korean nuclear weapons even if that means accepting the North as a nuclear-armed state, as the United States has done with Pakistan, India and Israel.Mr. Kims speech seemed infused with a sense that Mr. Trump is now facing that critical choice  one the president has never talked about publicly  at a moment of considerable internal disarray, especially at the Pentagon.Kim seems to be saying outright that his patience is running thin at the continued insistence on unilateral disarmament, Vipin Narang, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who follows North Korea closely, wrote in an email. The stick was the threat to go down a new path if the U.S. doesnt reciprocate.This may all be a negotiating tactic, just as the American insistence that sanctions stay in place until the North is disarmed is a way of maintaining leverage.To hard-liners like Mr. Trumps national security adviser, John R. Bolton, who excoriated past administrations for making concessions ahead of disarmament, capitulating to Mr. Kim on this issue is anathema.It was Mr. Bolton who opened his tenure by suggesting that the North must follow the Libya model of surrendering its nuclear equipment and infrastructure first, as Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi did in 2003. (To Mr. Kim, the Libya model means something very different. North Korea media has periodically noted that eight years later, Colonel Qaddafi was bombed by the United States and its allies, and ultimately assassinated by Libyan revolutionaries.)Mr. Bolton argued in early December that because North Korea had not lived up to the commitments so far, Mr. Trump thinks that another summit is likely to be productive. In other words, that the only deal to be made is leader-to-leader, something Mr. Kim seemed to suggest in his New Years speech.But to those who have viewed Mr. Trumps maximum pressure as a strategy bound to fail, Mr. Kims offer of a step-by-step approach is the only pathway to success  though maybe a success that constrains, rather than eliminates, the Norths nuclear ambitions.When zero weapons is not on the table  and its not  then something less than 100 nuclear weapons seems better than the alternative, said Robert S. Litwak, author of Preventing North Koreas Nuclear Breakout and a scholar at the Wilson Center in Washington.Mr. Trump seems to have taken the first step in that direction by celebrating the Norths voluntary freeze on missile and nuclear testing, which has kept it from solving the last physics problems in delivering a nuclear weapon across the Pacific, able to target American cities.Oddly, Mr. Litwak noted, merely constraining a nuclear capability  rather than eliminating it  was Mr. Trumps complaint about the Iran nuclear deal, which he abandoned last year. Mr. Trump argued that the Iran deal was not a permanent solution and that the United States was safer reimposing sanctions rather than sticking with an accord that would allow Iran to resume enriching nuclear material  but not build weapons  in 2030.Now, facing a North Korean state that already has 20 to 60 such weapons  Iran never had any  Mr. Trump must decide whether it is better to constrain the growth, or stick with the position he defended so hotly as a presidential candidate and into his first year in office.Some advisers around Mr. Trump, including some who have left in the past year, believe that the number of weapons means little to the president; he wants to be seen as the man who ended the Korean War. That is why, one former adviser said recently, Mr. Trump kept repeating the suggestion that he might win a Nobel Peace Prize.The bottom line is that Pyongyang wants to keep its nuclear program, engage the United States in a process designed to improve relations, reassure the United States that it will not use its nukes or proliferate, Mr. Revere noted, and reap the benefits of better ties with Washington.Are these disparate and contradictory goals reconcilable? he asked. Probably not.Rick Gladstone contributed reporting.videoAdvertisement"
"

      By SCOTT SHANE and 
    
GABRIELLA DEMCZUK

UPDATED April 17, 2019

Here are some pieces of the jigsaw puzzle. The full picture is missing.
It began with a trickle  curious developments that mostly raised more questions. There was evidence of election hacking  but could it really have been directed by the Kremlin? Certain Americans on Facebook, pitching for Donald J. Trump and stirring up anger, turned out to be impostors  but who had concocted them? One Trump campaign aide after another surfaced in sketchy reports of meetings with mysterious Russians  but did the encounters add up to anything significant?Then there was the candidates famously twitchy Twitter finger, scathing toward so many public figures but oddly respectful of the Russian president. Was that a signal of dark secrets, or just of a soft spot for a strongman?And so, in 2016, began the F.B.I.s epic investigation  and the attempt by journalists to track it. On Thursday, barring a natural disaster or alien attack, the public should get its first real look at the report of Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel.There are a thousand ways for reporters to inquire into the slow unfolding of a complex investigation, many of them producing mostly frustration. Making call after call to lawyers for those under scrutiny  and to their friends and frenemies, rivals and business associates. Poring over a so-called dossier that makes shocking claims but offers little evidence sufficiently detailed to allow a true fact-check. Haunting congressional hearings and trailing the witnesses through the hallway mob scene afterward.And while some F.B.I. inquiries are helpfully leaky for journalists, the special counsels investigation proved hermetically sealed. The skimpy summary provided last month by Attorney General William P. Barr  that Mr. Mueller found no criminal conspiracy with Russia but declined to clear the president on obstruction of justice  simply set off more partisan squabbling.So if an investigation is a jigsaw puzzle, the mosaic of the two-year inquiry by Mr. Mueller remains incomplete, at least for the public and the press. We have seen major parts laid out in staggering detail in the 199 charges he has filed against 34 people and three companies  the only way Mr. Mueller, 74, a former F.B.I. director, has so far chosen to speak.Jeff Sessions, the former attorney general, recommended Mr. Comeys firing.President Trump fired Mr. ComeyThe special counsel was appointed.We know what keywords a particular Russian military intelligence hacker searched for on the web on a particular date. We know that Putins niece, introduced to a Trump campaign adviser by a suspicious professor, was not Putins niece. We know that a Trump Tower in Moscow, a longtime business dream of Mr. Trump, was still being secretly pursued even as the candidate took public stands that might please or offend Russia.In that sense, the trickle has long since become a flood. The cast of characters has grown, and grown familiar  Flynn, Manafort, Cohen, Papadopoulos; the pattern of lying to investigators and Congress has become routine; the presidents shifting stories have become the norm. News coverage has become background noise, like a sea that periodically surges and retreats.But for all of that, much of the investigation remains guesswork. We dont know whether we know 90 percent or 50 percent or 20 percent of the findings. It is possible that Mr. Muellers team of aggressive prosecutors has already revealed virtually all of its work in public indictments and courtroom pronouncements. And it is also possible that Mr. Muellers report, approaching 400 pages before Mr. Barrs redactions, will still contain some bombshells.Mr. SessionsRod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general.William P. Barr, the attorney general.In a polarized country, with different news outlets offering divergent partisan spins, different factions fill the Mueller vacuum with radically different realities. Many Democrats, though deflated by Mr. Barrs preview, still expect to find new evidence in the report of serious misdeeds by the president.Yet many of Mr. Trumps supporters, drawing their information from different sources, believe the real story is something else entirely: enemies of Mr. Trump misused government agencies to spy on his campaign, then began a bogus investigation to undermine his presidency. Mr. Barrs qualified affirmation that there was, in fact, spying, has energized them.It is an alarming divide, not because the two sides harbor different opinions, but because they believe different sets of facts.So the capital is once again on edge, awaiting Thursdays revelations. For now  for just a little longer  the special counsel, sphinxlike, keeps his counsel.Produced by Umi Syam, Marisa Schwartz Taylor and Rumsey Taylor.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Alan RappeportWASHINGTON  President Trump this week will turn his attention from a fight with congressional Democrats to an even more formidable negotiating challenge, one with potentially higher stakes: China.Trade talks with Beijing begin on Wednesday in Washington, kicking off a monthlong sprint of negotiations between the two nations that could prove more difficult than Mr. Trumps unsuccessful attempt to secure money from Congress for a border wall.The negotiations come at a critical moment for Mr. Trumps economic agenda and the global economy, which is beginning to slow in part because of the presidents trade policies.This week, a Chinese delegation led by Liu He, the vice premier, will meet with an American delegation led by Robert Lighthizer, Mr. Trumps top trade negotiator, and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary. A White House official said on Monday that Mr. Liu will meet personally with Mr. Trump on Thursday.If the two sides cannot reach a trade agreement by March 2, the United States has said it plans to escalate the trade war and raise tariffs on $200 billion of Chinese imports. China has indicated it will similarly retaliate, making the talks beginning this week critical to resolving the standoff.Mr. Mnuchin said that there has been significant movement in the talks but cautioned that the two countries are still working through very complicated issues.The Treasury secretary added that securing intellectual property protection for American companies, ending regulations that require joint ventures with Chinese firms, and including measures to enforce the agreement would be crucial to completing a deal.We expect when we get a deal, that deal will be enforced, Mr. Mnuchin said, adding that he believed China understands that.Trump administration officials have pointed to recent signs of economic weakness in China, caused in part by tariffs imposed by the United States, as a reason Beijing should urgently seek a deal with the United States. The 35-day government shutdown, however, has drained some of the presidents political capital, potentially weakening Mr. Trumps leverage during the homestretch of the talks. On Monday, the Congressional Budget Office estimated that the shutdown cost the economy $11 billion, with $3 billion of that lost permanently.The length and political dynamics of the shutdown have highlighted the unpredictability and intransigence of the Trump administration on economic issues, which could paradoxically end up working to the U.S. advantage, said Eswar Prasad, the former head of the International Monetary Funds China division. Of course, the damaging economic effects of the shutdown and Trumps desire to score a cleaner win at least on trade could also make U.S. negotiators somewhat more flexible and willing to strike a deal.The administration continues to insist it has the upper hand, with Mr. Trump reiterating in a tweet last week that he is ready to raise tariffs and urging China to stop playing around.But the Chinese may be emboldened by the fact that the presidents reputation as a deal-maker suffered in the wake of failing to secure a win on the border wall.The Chinese may see the presidents retreat as a sign of weakness and have them harden their resolve not to make major concessions, said Scott Kennedy, a China expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.Pressure on the United States is also increasing from the corporate sector, as big American manufacturers with exposure to China start taking a financial hit. Caterpillar on Monday said its profit for 2019 would be lower than expected as sales of heavy machinery to China slow and costs for materials rise, in part because of tariffs on foreign steel and aluminum. Nvidia, a big chip maker, cut its fourth-quarter revenue estimates, in part because of weak demand for its gaming chips in China.Deteriorating macroeconomic conditions, particularly in China, impacted consumer demand, Nvidia said in a news release. Shares of both companies fell, dragging down equity markets in the United States.Larry Kudlow, the director of the National Economic Council, dismissed the suggestion that the United States has been pushing China too hard to make changes, and that it risked blowback if its economy sours.Whats at stake here I think is the possibility of spreading prosperity, frankly, in both countries, Mr. Kudlow said at a White House briefing.Markets have been fixated on the status of the talks, with any inkling of optimism sending global stocks higher. Advisers to Mr. Trump, fearful that he could strike a quick deal to give stocks a lift, have cautioned him against focusing too much on daily market swings.The prospect of an unresolved trade war between the worlds two largest economies has dampened business confidence. A survey released on Monday by the National Association for Business Economics found that 36 percent of manufacturers in the United States have raised prices because of Mr. Trumps trade policies and 27 percent have delayed investments. Business groups such as the U.S. Chamber of Commerce have urged the administration to take a less confrontational approach to China.With the deadline quickly approaching, Trump administration officials have been downplaying expectations about a potential deal being reached soon. Wilbur Ross, the Commerce secretary, said last week that the United States and China were miles and miles apart and Mr. Kudlow has suggested that details of a deal were not set in stone ahead of the discussions this week.Congressional aides who have been briefed by the administration on the status of the talks said China has agreed to make large purchases of American products to reduce the trade deficit, which is one of Mr. Trumps key goals. Chinas commitment to addressing other concerns, such as forced technology transfer, protections for American intellectual property and reducing its subsidies of state-owned-enterprises, remains uncertain.The Trump administration has also made little progress when it comes to devising a way to ensure that China lives up to whatever commitments it makes in a final agreement. There is widespread concern among trade experts that China could be slow-walking the negotiations and that it will offer repackaged promises that it has failed to deliver on in the past. To prevent that, officials have been considering snap-back tariffs that could be quickly imposed, or carousel tariffs that would hit different swaths of Chinese goods if Beijing fails to follow through.Christopher Adams, who until last year was the senior coordinator for China affairs at the Treasury Department, said it is not hard to imagine Mr. Trump settling for a smaller preliminary deal and extending the March deadline to continue talks on bigger issues. Mr. Adams suggested the administration could also conclude that it must rely on its own tools, such as export controls and the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, the body that can investigate and block foreign transactions on national security concerns, if China proves unwilling to undertake meaningful reforms. That would likely mean that the tariffs Mr. Trump has imposed will stay in place for a while.I think the ball is in Chinas court, Mr. Adams said. It really comes down to whether Liu He brings something from President Xi and whether that something gets us close.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy The New York TimesWilliam P. Barr appeared in front of the Senate Judiciary Committee on Tuesday for the first day of his confirmation hearing for attorney general. Mr. Barr pledged to allow the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, to finish his investigation and promised to withstand political pressure from President Trump or other forces, saying his age, 68, and experience freed him to act independently. Mr. Barr unexpectedly qualified some of his unusually expansive views of executive power. He emphasized legal limits on the presidency and law enforcement independence. Mr. Barr defended as entirely proper an unsolicited memo he wrote criticizing Mr. Muellers examination of whether the president obstructed justice. key momentMr. Barr used his opening remarks to the committee to clarify that he has no intention of firing Mr. Mueller before his work is done and to indicate that he would provide as much transparency as I can consistent with the law around the investigations results. The rule of law, he insisted, should be above and outside of the politics that divide the nation.It is in the best interest of everyone  the president, Congress and, most importantly, the American people  that this matter be resolved by allowing the special counsel to complete his work, Mr. Barr said. He added: I will follow the special counsel regulations scrupulously and in good faith, and on my watch, Bob will be allowed to finish.Mr. Mueller is believed to be in the final stages of his inquiry, which he took over from the F.B.I. in May 2017 after agents opened it nearly two and a half years ago.The country needs a credible resolution of these issues, Mr. Barr said.The fate of Mr. Muellers findings  an expected report  was a recurring topic. Mr. Barr said that Mr. Muellers report to the attorney general will be confidential, but the attorney general will then produce his own report to Congress based on that material. He said that he intended to be as transparent as possible given grand-jury secrecy rules, but that he would not let the White House edit or change it, as the presidents lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, has suggested may happen.That will not happen, Mr. Barr said. Nicholas Fandos7:39 P.M.Throughout the hearing, Mr. Barr espoused surprisingly more moderate views than he has previously, and not only about presidential power and law-enforcement independence. He also found himself backpedaling a bit when pressed about his defense of Mr. Trump's push for an investigation into Hillary Clinton. Mr. Barr had said in 2017 that he saw far more basis to investigate the Obama administrations approval of the sale of a Canadian mining company to a Russian state-owned corporation than to investigate possible Trump campaign coordination with Russias election interference.The sale, which was approved while Hillary Clinton was secretary of state, has been the subject of a conspiracy theory about Mrs. Clinton and her familys foundation that circulates in some conservative circles despite being debunked.Mr. Barr initially suggested his comment, which appeared in a New York Times article, had been mischaracterized. The reporter who wrote the article, Peter Baker, tweeted Mr. Barrs 2017 email containing the comment in full, putting to rest the possibility of misinterpretation. Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, later read aloud from the tweeted email during the hearing, noting that Mr. Barr had testified earlier about the seriousness of Russias election meddling and pressing him about why he would assert that the Uranium One sale deserved more scrutiny. Mr. Barr hemmed and hawed, acknowledging that he had no specific information about Uranium One that would say that it had not been handled appropriately and that he did not mean the Clinton Foundation merited a criminal investigation.He suggested that he been using it really as an example of the kinds of things that were floating around and some people felt had to be looked at too, to make the point that calling for investigations into political opponents was bad: I dont subscribe to this lock her up stuff, he said, referring to a popular chant at Mr. Trumps political rallies about jailing Mrs. Clinton. Charlie Savage5:51 P.M.The Justice Department has held for decades time that indicting or criminally prosecuting a president while in office would violate the Constitution by undermining his ability to do his job. Despite a spirited legal debate about the validity of those opinions, Mr. Barr said he saw no reason to revisit them.I actually havent read those opinions in a long time, but I see no reason to change them, he said, in response to prompt by Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, who said he believed the president could be indicted while in office and a trial postponed until his time there ended. Nicholas Fandos5:32 P.M.Democrats tried repeatedly to get Mr. Barr to chastise Mr. Trump for his attacks on federal law enforcement and condemn his fanciful use of facts. Mr. Barr did not take the bait, and his response may offer an early glimpse of how he might navigate one of the most uncomfortable positions in the government  overseeing and defending an investigation loathed by the president who nominated him.Even as he offered a consistent defense of Mr. Mueller (I have the utmost respect for Bob) and pledged to defend his investigation, Mr. Barr pointedly declined to criticize the president directing unrelenting attacks on investigators and elements of the Justice Department itself. And he said he was not concerned by what Senator Mazie Hirono, Democrat of Hawaii, called the way Donald Trump undermines the institutions in our society that help us to maintain a moral consensus with false information.Instead, Mr. Barr suggested that the presidents position was a reasonable one, at least as it pertained to the Mueller inquiry.Its understandable that if someone felt they were falsely accused they would view an investigation as something like a witch hunt where someone like you or me who doesnt know the facts, you know, might not use that term, Mr. Barr said. Nicholas Fandos5:06 P.M.Senators of both parties extended career guidance, praise and even snacks to Liam Daly, Mr. Barrs young grandson who sat through the hourslong hearing.Liams parents are both Justice Department leaders, and he was deeply engaged in the confirmation process.You are doing great so far, he wrote in a note to Mr. Barr that was captured by a Reuters photographer. I am having so much fun.After Mr. Barr said that Russia posed a threat to the United States, Liam offered a subtle adjustment. I think Russias people are fine, he wrote to his grandfather. The government is the problem.Liam, 8, is also an avid reader of the childrens edition of The New York Times, a Justice Department official confirmed; Mr. Barrs wife bought him a subscription. Liam found a recent article on the Supreme Court interesting, the official said. Katie Benner4:10 P.M.Senators have asked Mr. Barr about the last attorney general. They have called out former top F.B.I. officials by name. And they have spent an inordinate amount of time playfully counseling his grandson by name. But they have hardly mentioned the acting attorney general, Matthew G. Whitaker.Mr. Whitaker had proven to be a lightning rod for scrutiny since he took over the Justice Department when former Attorney General Jeff Sessions was fired late last year. He ignored the advice of ethics experts at the department and decided to take a direct role overseeing the Mueller investigation, an inquiry of which he has been highly critical, and Democrats argue that his temporary appointment was legally dubious in the first place.Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee announced on Tuesday that they had reached an agreement for Mr. Whitaker to testify in public on Feb. 8. The committees chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, said he expected Mr. Whitaker to appear whether or not the current lapse in appropriations has been resolved, and whether or not the Senate has confirmed a new attorney general. Nicholas Fandos4:03 P.M.Mr. Barr took a hawkish stance on China that comports with the Trump administrations view, calling it the primary rival of the United States and praising former Attorney General Jeff Sessions for cracking down on Chinese intellectual property theft and espionage.While he was general counsel of Verizon, Mr. Barr said, he was well aware of the potential national security threat posed by the Chinese telecommunications and tech equipment companies Huawei and ZTE. The intelligence community has long warned that firms were too close to the Chinese government and that they could use their products to monitor communications on behalf of Beijing. Katie Benner3:35 P.M.Under questioning by Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, Mr. Barr pledged to obey and uphold a 2015 law that restricts interrogators to the techniques listed in the Army Field Manual.That was an important change because I think it gave clarity to the law and I will support that, Mr. Barr said.Ms. Feinstein, who chaired the Senate Intelligence Committee when it produced a lengthy investigative report about the C.I.A.s torture program under the Bush administration, noted that it had relied upon secret memos by the Justice Departments Office of Legal Counsel blessing techniques like extended sleep deprivation and the suffocation tactic known as waterboarding despite anti-torture laws.She also noted that in 2005, Mr. Barr had defended President Bushs purported legal right to withhold Geneva Convention protections from terrorism detainees and to submit them to coercive interrogation, including inflicting pain, discomfort and other things to make people talk so long as it does not involve the gratuitous barbarity involved in torture.Pressed by Ms. Feinstein about whether waterboarding counted as torture, Mr. Barr said he did not know if it counted as such under the law in 2005, but that because of the newer law, right now its prohibited, so, you know, the law has definitively dealt with that. Charlie Savage3:22 P.M.Their tones were starkly different, but a coalition of liberal and conservative senators who teamed up last year to push into law major revisions to federal sentencing and prison laws pressed to make sure Mr. Barr understood that times had changed since he was last in office.During your previous tenure as attorney general, you literally wrote the book on mass incarceration or wrote this report, said Senator Cory Booker, Democrat of New Jersey, referencing a 1992 Justice Department memorandum, The Case for More Incarceration. Mr. Booker urged Mr. Barr to say that the spike in incarceration caused by those policies had disproportionately affected black Americans.Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, sought assurances that Mr. Barr that he would implement the new bill, which lowers mandatory minimum sentences for nonviolent drug offenders, promotes anti-recidivism programs, and expands early release.The short answer was yes, but Mr. Barr bristled at the suggestion he was hostile to the bill. He said he viewed tough-on-crime policies of the 1980s and 1990s, when he was last in office, as responsible for the ensuing drop in violent crime.I dont think comparing the policies that were in effect in 1992 to the situation now is really fair, he told Mr. Grassley. He added, I think the time was right to take stock and make changes to our penal system based on our current experience. Nicholas Fandos2:44 p.m.Democratic senators wanted other assurances of noninterference, too, particularly for regular federal prosecutors who be separately investigating Mr. Trump or building cases that could be damaging to his interests. Here, Mr. Barr drew a distinction between the special counsels investigation, which is governed by special rules, and matters considered through the departments normal channels.I have the responsibility to use my judgment and discretion that are inherent in the office of attorney general to supervise, he said, referring to cases brought through the usual order. To let individual U.S. attorneys work without supervision or make assurances about individual investigations would be an abdication of that responsibility, he said.Mr. Barr said that he would not stand for efforts to interfere or scuttle investigations within the department for political reasons, but offered a caveat about presidential power.I would not stand by and allow, you know, an investigation to be stopped if I thought it was a lawful investigation, he said. I wouldnt stand by for that, but the president is free to fire his, you know, officials that hes appointed.Democrats had at least one high-profile case in mind. Prosecutors in the Southern District of New York have built a case that has implicated Mr. Trump in a scheme to pay hush money to two women during the 2016 campaign to stop them from speaking publicly about affairs they said they had with him.The point is, Mr. Barr said, if someone tried to stop a bona fide, lawful investigation to cover up wrongdoing, I would resign. Nicholas Fandos1:19 P.M.Asked whether he would consider jailing journalists for doing their jobs, Mr. Barr paused before explaining that he could conceive of situations as a last resort where a news organization or journalist needs to be held accountable for putting out stuff that they know will harm the country.The Justice Department has cracked down in recent years on government employees who share classified information with reporters. Under former President Barack Obama, the Justice Department prosecuted more leaks than all previous administrations combined. Reporters are loathe to reveal sources, and some have been jailed for refusing a judges orders to do so.Mr. Barrs hesitation may have been because of the Justice Departments long pursuit of the WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange over the sites publication of troves of secret government papers. Obama-era lawyers debated whether to charge him but held off because they could never decide on a clear answer to the question of how his work differed from that of traditional news organizations.But prosecutors have secretly charged him, they mistakenly revealed last year, raising questions of whether they set aside concerns about setting a precedent that would chill press freedoms because of WikiLeaks release of stolen Democratic emails that Russian intelligence operatives hacked during the 2016 election.  Katie BennerFrom the archives1 P.M.Mr. Barr said he agrees with the president about the need to change the nations immigration laws, including his demand for a border wall that has prompted the nations longest government shutdown.We need money right now for border security  including barriers and walls and slats and other things, Mr. Barr said, anything that makes sense in different areas of the border.Tuesday marked the 25th day of the partial government shutdown with little indication that Mr. Trump and congressional Democrats were any closer to a compromise on funding for a border wall.Mr. Barr said he would like to see an agreement between lawmakers and the president that recognizes the need for border security, and part of that common-sense matter needs barriers. Eileen Sullivan11:45 A.M.Asked what he would do if confronted with a situation where he might have to resign, Mr. Barr cited his age and his previous stint as attorney general to say he will be unshackled from politics to make the right decision, regardless of whether it is politically prudent for his career or for the president.It might give me pause if I was 45 or 50 years old, but it doesnt give me pause right now, said Mr. Barr, 68.He added: I will not be bullied into doing anything I think is wrong by anybody whether it be editorial boards or Congress or the president. Im going to do what I think is right. Michael S. Schmidt11:20 A.M.Mr. Barr has long advanced an unusually expansive view of executive authority. He has portrayed the president, not the attorney general, as the nations top law-enforcement official, and suggested that Congress cannot bar a president from using his executive powers  like to pardon someone or start or stop a law enforcement proceeding  in a corrupt way.This has raised the question of whether his permissive theories would unleash Mr. Trump, who is not known for his self-restraint. But in several ways on Tuesday, Mr. Barr appeared to walk back or qualify some of his earlier writings, putting greater emphasis on the Justice Departments independence and legal limits on the presidency.For example, Mr. Barr said that if a president directed the Justice Department to close an investigation to protect himself or his family, that would violate the Constitution. And asked by Senator Patrick Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, whether a president could pardon someone in exchange for a promise not to incriminate him, Mr. Barr said that would be a crime. Charlie Savage10:38 A.M.Mr. Barr defended as entirely proper his decision to write an unsolicited, lengthy memo to the Trump administration legal team in June arguing that Mr. Mueller should not be permitted to investigate the president for violating criminal obstruction-of-justice laws based on how he chose to exercise his constitutional powers, like to fire a subordinate or order an investigation closed.Mr. Barr stressed that he was in the dark about what Mr. Muellers obstruction theory was, and said that he was merely speculating. He emphasized that his concern was the ramifications down the road of establishing such a rule.One theory in particular that appeared to be under consideration under a specific statute concerned me because I thought it would involve stretching the statute beyond what was intended and would do it in a way that would have serious adverse consequences for all agencies that are involved in the administration of justice, especially the Department of Justice, he said. And I thought it would have a chilling effect going forward over time. Charlie Savage10:12 A.M.Ms. Feinstein read excerpts from Mr. Barrs writings on a presidents purported power to control all law-enforcement activity and said she intended to press him on whether he would resist political interference from Mr. Trump, noting his calls for new criminal inquiries into Democrats like Hillary Clinton.Its important that the next attorney general be able to strongly resist pressure, whether from the administration or Congress to conduct investigations for political purposes, she said. You must have the integrity, the strength and the fortitude to tell the president no, regardless of the consequences.In his opening statement, Mr. Barr appeared to embrace that principle.The attorney general must ensure that the administration of justice, the enforcement of the law, is above and away from politics, he said. Nothing could be more destructive of our system of government, of the rule of law, or the Department of Justice as an institution than any toleration of political interference with the enforcement of the law. Charlie Savage10:02 A.M.Mr. Barr briefly spoke of his commitment to public service and the Justice Department. He noted that most of his children are government lawyers, including one in a top position at the Justice Department. One of his three daughters coordinates the departments response to the opioid crisis, and a son-in-law also works in the departments national security division.Somebody needs to make money in the family, joked Mr. Graham. Katie BennerWhen Mr. Barr was nominated to serve as attorney general the first time in 1991, the Democratic Senate unanimously confirmed him by voice vote. He should not expect such a smooth ride this time around, but with Republicans in control of the chamber by a 53-to-47 majority, his confirmation appears to be on track.Two wild cards could scramble the usual partisan divide. A handful of moderate Republicans facing re-election fights in 2020 or simply skeptical of Mr. Trumps intentions could theoretically swing against Mr. Barr if he fails to convince them that he would stand up for the special counsel. If these senators  Cory Gardner of Colorado, Susan Collins of Maine, Thom Tillis of North Carolina, Mitt Romney of Utah and others  banded together with a united Democratic caucus, they could kill the confirmation.But Democrats may also be motivated to quickly move Mr. Barr through confirmation. They have been highly critical of the acting attorney general, Matthew G. Whitaker, a Trump loyalist whom they view as a direct threat to Mr. Mueller, and want him out of office as quickly as possible. If they view Mr. Barr as sincere in his public assurances about the investigation, it is a swap many Democrats might eagerly make. Nicholas FandosAdvertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergPARKERSBURG, W.Va.  On Day 20 of the partial government shutdown last week, a small band of federal workers, shivering in 25-degree weather, staged a rally to send what their organizer, Eric Engle, said was a message to Senator Shelley Moore Capito: We need to end this shutdown. If it takes overriding the president, thats what it takes.But here in the heart of Trump country, that message is decidedly muffled, even in Parkersburg, where the federal government is one of the two largest employers. So strong is support for President Trump, who remains dug in on his demand for $5.7 billion to build a border wall, that even some furloughed workers insist Ms. Capito must stick with him.We need the wall, Jessica Lemasters, 29, an accountant on furlough from the Treasury Department, said over lunch at the Corner Cafe, a few blocks from the rally. I dont like being furloughed, but it happens.Those conflicting sentiments help explain why Senate Republicans like Ms. Capito remain in lock step with Mr. Trump, even as the longest government shutdown ever enters its fourth week and 800,000 federal workers miss their paychecks. The 24th day of the shutdown slipped by with no progress toward a resolution, and while polls show that a majority of Americans blame Mr. Trump and Republicans and do not support a border wall, Republicans are reading a different line in the polling: Support for the wall is growing and hardening among Republican voters.I am concerned for my people, said Gregory D. Blaney, an aerospace engineer who runs a NASA facility in Fairmont, W.Va., and is working without pay. But, he added, Im willing to endure some impact if it means border security.Mr. Trumps verbal gyrations on the wall and the shutdown have left Senate Republicans bewildered  and twisting wildly themselves. Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, a close ally of the president who is also running for re-election in 2020, has gone from trying to negotiate a bipartisan compromise to advocating a presidential emergency declaration to calling on Mr. Trump to temporarily reopen the government while continuing negotiations on the wall.On Monday, Mr. Trump bluntly responded to that last one: I did reject it.Early last week, Ms. Capito, a freshman up for re-election next year, seemed to be wavering when she suggested she might be able to live with negotiating border security after reopening the government  the Democrats position.But after Mr. Trump addressed the nation from the Oval Office and traveled to the border, she walked back those remarks, telling a local television station, I think President Trump is going to stand strong, and Im going to stand strong with him.Just over 100 years ago, the first woman was sworn into Congress. As of this month, a record 131 women are serving in the Legislature. The New York Times photographed them.So far, only three Senate Republicans  Cory Gardner of Colorado, Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska  have decisively broken with Mr. Trump and called for the government to reopen without a border wall deal. Mr. Gardner and Ms. Collins are up for re-election in Democratic-leaning states; Ms. Murkowski was re-elected in 2016.Others are expressing their unease with caution. Senator Joni Ernst of Iowa has put distance, if only a tiny bit, between herself and Mr. Trump by saying that while she strongly supports a wall, it does not need to cover the entire southern border. Senator Martha McSally of Arizona has asked that her pay be withheld until the shutdown is over. Senator Thom Tillis of North Carolina has called for Republicans to strike a deal that included long-term security for the young immigrants known as Dreamers who were brought to the country illegally as children. All will face voters in 2020.The question for Republicans up in 2020 is how long can they let this go on, said Jennifer Duffy, who analyzes Senate races for the nonpartisan Cook Political Report. The more uncomfortable they get, the closer they get to breaking with Trump. But they have to watch the base.Here in West Virginia, where Mr. Trump clobbered Hillary Clinton by more than 40 points in 2016, the shutdowns effects are severe. The federal government employs nearly 3.5 percent of West Virginia workers  a bigger share than in all but six other states and the District of Columbia, according to data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.The state has six federal prisons whose correctional officers are working without pay. Other federal agencies have built big installations here to escape the high cost of office space in the Washington region. The F.B.I. has a major fingerprint center on 986 acres of land in Clarksburg. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and NASA share a sprawling technology park in Fairmont. All have employees working without pay.Just last month, after Congress approved legislation championed by Ms. Capito, Mr. Trump renamed the NASA facility in honor of one of the women who inspired the Academy Award-nominated film Hidden Figures. Now it is mostly shuttered.But border security is an issue that resonates in West Virginia, in large part because of the states opioid epidemic. While Mr. Trump overstated the amount of opioids flowing into the nation through the southern border in his Oval Office speech, many here see the wall as one way to stop the tide.We see every day the effects of the opioid epidemic, said Ms. Lemasters, the furloughed worker, explaining why she is so strongly in favor of the wall.Mr. Trumps language about unauthorized immigrants also resonates strongly here, where whites make up 94 percent of the population. They come to this country, they are coming from Third World countries, said Steve Plum, a retired police officer who owns the Corner Cafe with his wife. They have absolutely nothing to offer.As to Ms. Capito, she needs to stand her ground, he said.Ms. Capito, 65, declined requests for an interview. She votes with Mr. Trump 96 percent of the time, according to the website FiveThirtyEight, but her style is anything but Trump-like. She keeps a low profile in Washington and sees government not as an enemy but as an opportunity for West Virginia, whose residents rely heavily on federal support.Shes not a bomb thrower. Shes never going to get too far out there on the edge. Shes very careful, said Hoppy Kercheval, a prominent radio host in West Virginia, who had Ms. Capito on his show last week. I would not call her a Trump cheerleader. I would call her a supporter of Trump policies.Ms. Capito is also chairwoman of the Senate Appropriations subcommittee that has jurisdiction over the Department of Homeland Security, and in that role she put together a bill that allocated $1.6 billion for border security and fencing.It gained bipartisan approval in committee and has passed the Democratic-controlled House. But Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, refuses to take it up. So like other spending bills that could reopen the government, Ms. Capitos measure is now stalled in the Senate.I got $1.6 billion for the wall with 10 Democrats voting for this, Ms. Capito told Mr. Kercheval, though the money was not supposed to be spent on a wall. But I also realize that holding parts of the government that are unrelated to this hostage, with people missing paychecks and things of that nature after a while begins to wear on not just the folks who are most directly affected but everybody.Tolerance may be eroding here in Parkersburg, a city of about 30,000 that sits across the border from Ohio.The Treasury Departments Bureau of the Fiscal Service  which most people call by its old name, the Bureau of the Public Debt  employs about 2,000 people, though not all are affected by the shutdown. Disgust with Washington runs high.I think they are acting like a bunch of freaking kids up there, said Randy Beymer, a retired salesman, over a late breakfast with his sister, Donna Hewitt, who nodded in agreement.Many are directing their ire at Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, and Speaker Nancy Pelosi. Pelosi and Schumer say a wall is immoral; theyve got a wall around their house, said Rod Sellers, 70, a truck driver, echoing conservative talking points that are not true.But Ms. Capito is already beginning to share in the blame. At the Oil and Gas Museum downtown, which chronicles the citys history as a site for oil and gas exploration, Darla Uppole, who was visiting with her 11-year-old daughter from nearby Williamstown, said Ms. Capito needed to get off the sidelines and push Mr. Trump toward compromise.Hes got to be pushed, but shes got to support him too, she said. I do think we need the wall, but this is no way to run government.Robert Gebeloff contributed reporting from New York.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning,Were covering President Trumps reversal of a longtime U.S. policy in the Middle East and a delay in Britains departure from the European Union. Its also Friday, so theres a new news quiz.Mr. Trump said on Thursday that the U.S. should recognize Israels authority over the long disputed Golan Heights, overturning decades of American policy in the Middle East.Mr. Trumps announcement on Twitter came after persistent pressure from the Israeli prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, an ally who is fighting for his political life with an election scheduled for next month. While popular in Israel and among some U.S. lawmakers, Mr. Trumps decision is likely to be condemned almost everywhere else. Catch up: The United Nations has rejected Israels occupation of the Golan Heights since 1967, when Israeli troops seized the 400 square miles from Syria during the Arab-Israeli War. Heres a brief history of the dispute. Whats next: Practically speaking, Mr. Trumps announcement doesnt change much, as the status of the Golan Heights is not under negotiation, and theres no expectation that Israel will withdraw. But symbolically, the decision shakes up a debate that has changed little since the 1970s.European Union officials agreed on Thursday to extend the deadline for Britains withdrawal from the bloc until May 22, as long as Prime Minister Theresa May can persuade Parliament to accept her plan for doing so. If she cant  and lawmakers have already rejected her proposal twice  the deadline would be moved up to April 12.The agreement effectively averted a disorderly and chaotic departure at the end of next week, yet such a break remains a possibility.Whats next: Neither side wants Britain to leave without a deal. European Union officials said they remained open to a longer delay but that it would require Britain to participate in European Parliament elections  something that Mrs. May has said would be an absurdity.A week after the terrorist attack on two mosques that left 50 people dead, mourners from around the world gathered in Christchurch, New Zealand, today to share the Muslim call to prayer and two minutes of silence.This terrorist sought to tear our nation apart with an evil ideology that has torn the world apart  but instead we have shown that New Zealand is unbreakable, said Imam Gamal Fouda of Al Noor Mosque, one of the two attacked.Related: In addition to announcing a ban on the type of weapons used in the shooting, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern has pledged to hold social media companies accountable for letting hateful speech thrive on their platforms. As of Thursday, at least two people have been charged in New Zealand with spreading the killers video of part of the attack.The Daily: Todays episode is about the speed with which New Zealand planned changes to its gun laws after the attack.The countrys national airline said today that it had asked to cancel an order of 737 Max 8 jets. It is the first publicly confirmed attempt to stop a deal since the planes were involved in two deadly crashes. A spokesman for the carrier, Garuda Indonesia, said that its passengers had lost confidence in the model. But he acknowledged that it would be difficult to cancel a signed agreement.Garudas deal was for 49 planes, and estimated to be worth $4.9 billion. A Boeing spokesman declined to comment.Another angle: Relatives of those killed when another airlines Max 8 crashed in Indonesia say the airline tried to buy their silence with a deal that would also protect Boeing.Small countries, corporations and wealthy individuals have a new weapon at their disposal: privatized spying through companies that hire former intelligence operatives. A monthslong Times investigation found that the firms have enabled governments to hack not only terrorist groups and drug cartels, but also activists and journalists. Saudi Arabia, for instance, has used the Israeli firm NSO, pictured above, to track dissidents. U.S. casualties in Afghanistan: Two U.S. service members were killed in northern Afghanistan today, bringing to four the American combat deaths in the country this year, Afghan and American officials said.Cyclones aftermath: As floodwaters receded in Mozambique, people with very little before the storm found that they had even less. Heres information about how to help people in southern Africa.U.S. flood warning: Nearly two-thirds of the lower 48 states will have an elevated risk of flooding until May, federal scientists have said. The Midwest has already confronted record-breaking late-winter floods. Deadly blast in China: An explosion that killed at least 47 people at a chemical factory has raised fears of poisons spreading in the air and water.Free speech on campus: President Trump has signed an executive order that links some higher education funds to how colleges enforce speech rights, a move endorsed by conservatives who say their voices have been silenced.Perspective: In an Op-Ed, James Comey, the former F.B.I. director, discusses what he would like to see in the special counsels report.Snapshot: Above, Holi celebrations in Amritsar, India, on Thursday. The Hindu festival marks the arrival of spring.N.C.A.A. basketball: Day 1 of the mens tournament had scares but no dramatic upsets. Heres the schedule for Day 2, as well as a look at the womens tournament, which starts today.News quiz: Did you follow the headlines this week? Test yourself.Modern Love: In this weeks column, a woman wonders if traditional romance is a trap, and finds that the ordinary is the most romantic gesture of all.Late-night comedy: Seth Meyers is getting impatient for a certain former vice president to announce hes running for president: Joe Biden is the kid you played hide and seek with who would hide behind a sheer curtain. We see you. What were reading: This essay in The New Yorker. Alisha Haridasani Gupta, a member of the briefings team, says: Emilia Clarke plays Daenerys Targaryen, one of the strongest, most compelling characters in the Game of Thrones series. Here, she reveals how through most of that era, she was struggling offscreen with near-death experiences from two aneurysms. Cook: Drizzle tahini dressing on a bread salad with roasted squash. Listen: Holly Herndons Eternal is as propulsive as it is disorienting, writes Jon Pareles.Watch: We have ideas on what to stream based on how much time you have. Go: Martinique offers Caribbean warmth with French accents. Smarter Living: After one of our reporters described a week of plastic-free shopping, readers wrote in with more tips: reuse rather than toss plastic cutlery, keep a coffee mug and a water bottle at your desk, and find new uses for yogurt containers, like painting or composting.We also have a checklist to help you avoid screen-share disasters, and the cautionary tale of an extreme example.What do lichens and politics have in common?As you may remember from chemistry class, a litmus test determines a solutions relative acidity. But the phrase is also used metaphorically to refer to a character-defining political issue, and it has been popping up in coverage of the race for the Democratic presidential nomination.The chemical test, in use since the Middle Ages, employs a dye derived from lichens to determine whether a solution is more acidic or alkaline.The political application of the phrase appeared in The Times at least as early as 1950, when it described NATO and the Marshall Plan as the litmus test for distinguishing between Communists and supporters of the United States.This year, litmus test has appeared in The Times to refer to marijuana legalization, the proposed border wall and universal health care.This week is the Times Magazines special Voyages Issue, featuring the travel guru Rick Steves, who wants to set you free.Enjoy the weekend. See you next time. ChrisThank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford, James K. Williamson and John Dorman for the break from the news. Chris himself wrote todays Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S. Were listening to The Daily. Todays episode is about New Zealands weapons ban. Heres todays mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Lead-in to X, Y or Z (3 letters). You can find all our puzzles here.  Frank Sinatra was a lifelong fan of The Times crossword puzzle and became a pen pal of our third puzzle editor, Eugene T. Maleska.Chris Stanford is the writer of the U.S. edition of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a home page producer at The Times. Before 2013, he worked at The Washington Post and other news outlets.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byClimate Fwd:Also this week, the latest on the government shutdown and Democrats plans to address climate change.By Lisa Friedman and Kendra Pierre-LouisWelcome to the Climate Fwd: newsletter. The New York Times climate team emails readers once a week with stories and insights about climate change. Sign up here to get it in your inbox.By Lisa FriedmanHappy 2019, everyone! While many of us are back to work, parts of the federal government are still closed.The shutdown has not affected the Energy Department, since that agencys funding has already been approved by Congress. But the Interior Department is struggling with mounting garbage and dirty bathrooms at national parks that are being kept open with minimal staffing. And the Environmental Protection Agency, which had been operating through Friday, has now furloughed thousands of workers.Just before the furloughs, the E.P.A. issued a major regulatory announcement: a plan to weaken standards that were designed to keep mercury pollution from coal-fired power plants out of the atmosphere. The proposal could also hamper the governments ability to enact future pollution regulations.And what about the effects that the Trump administrations policies are already having? I hope you made some time over the holidays to read this tremendous investigation by my colleagues Eric Lipton, Steve Eder and John Branch detailing the impacts on communities across the country as the administration eliminates dozens of Obama-era environmental rules.Meanwhile, Representative Nancy Pelosi, expected to be sworn in as speaker of the House this week, has appointed Kathy Castor, a Florida Democrat, to lead a new select committee on climate change. Ms. Castor said in a statement that Congress must reduce carbon pollution by unleashing American ingenuity and creating clean energy jobs to power our future.The committee has its critics, including incoming Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, who has championed the idea of a Green New Deal that would, among other things, transition the country to 100 percent renewable energy and provide a universal jobs guarantee. In a tweet this week, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez commended the creation of the select committee but she said the panel would be weakened without subpoena power or a mandate to develop Green New Deal legislation. There is still time to strengthen it, she wrote.Notably, one solution that doesnt seem to be up for serious consideration from the panel is a carbon tax. That could be because, as Justin Gillis asserts in this thought-provoking opinion column, its too politically toxic at the moment. On the other hand, the idea is getting new traction in some quarters, including from Senator Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, who co-sponsored legislation at the end of 2018 with Senator Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware, to tax emissions and return the proceeds to American households as a dividend.Expect this issue to heat up in the next Congress.By Kendra Pierre-LouisA new year is a time to look back and to look forward. So, in that spirit of reflection, we reviewed our One Thing You Can Do series, looking for some New Years resolutions. These individual actions are not a substitute for broader systemic change, but they can still help you lower your personal contribution to global warming.New Years resolutions often mean doing more, like working out more or saving more for retirement. But one common thread we found was that if you want to lower your climate footprint, you can find some success in simply consuming less. And it will save you money, too.Hang onto your phoneTake, for example, your cellphone. Most of us hold onto them for only two years, but as we noted in November, producing a common smartphone released the equivalent of 178 pounds of carbon dioxide, about as much running a modern refrigerator for a year. That is one of the biggest reasons that the global carbon footprint of smartphones is projected to increase by 730 percent this decade.While some companies are making strides in reducing the environmental impact associated with producing our favorite mobile devices, hanging onto your phone for longer than two years is one way to make a difference.Buy less clothingAnother thing thats helpful to hold onto? Your old clothes. The amount of textile waste in the United States increased by more than 800 percent from 1960 to 2015, according to the Environmental Protection Agency. (The population grew by about 78 percent during that period.)The process of creating all of that fabric has a significant environmental impact, including on the climate. One thing you can do is to buy less clothing; spend the new year shopping in your closet instead.Reduce food wasteAlso spend more time searching through your cupboard this year. January is a great time to use up the contents of your fridge and cabinets before food spoils and you have to throw it out.Globally, we throw out about a third of the food we buy, and if food waste were its own country it would be the third-largest greenhouse gas emitter behind China and the United States, according to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization.Reducing food waste is a great way to cut your greenhouse gas emissions, and it can help reduce your grocery bill at the same time.But while youre thinking about the best ways to cook up holiday leftovers, dont do it in front of the refrigerator. Make sure to shut the fridge door when youre not pulling things out  keeping the door shut is the most effective thing you can do to lower your fridges energy consumption. Eduardo Garcia, Henry Fountain and Julia Rosen contributed reporting.Wed love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email thoughts and suggestions to climateteam@nytimes.com.If you like what were doing, please spread the word and send this to your friends. You can sign up here to get our newsletter delivered to your inbox each week.And be sure to check out our full assortment of free newsletters from The Times.Lisa Friedman reports on climate and environmental policy in Washington. A former editor at Climatewire, she has covered nine international climate talks.  @LFFriedman Kendra Pierre-Louis is a reporter on the climate team. Before joining The Times in 2017, she covered science and the environment for Popular Science.  @kendrawrites Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily Cochrane and Charlie SavageWASHINGTON  The House will file a lawsuit challenging President Trumps declaration of a national emergency at the southwestern border, Speaker Nancy Pelosi announced Thursday, the latest in a series of efforts to stop Mr. Trump from securing money that Congress refused to give him for his promised wall.The presidents action clearly violates the Appropriations Clause by stealing from appropriated funds, an action that was not authorized by constitutional or statutory authority, Ms. Pelosi said in a statement.The House will once again defend our democracy and our Constitution, this time in the courts, she added. No one is above the law or the Constitution, not even the president.The Trump administration has argued that Mr. Trumps moves to spend more taxpayer dollars on border barriers than Congress had agreed to give him are lawful because he is invoking statutes that granted the president the power to move money around under urgent circumstances. Those statutes placed few limits on a presidents authority to determine that such situations exist.Mr. Trump and his defenders have also noted that presidents have declared national emergencies nearly 60 times since Congress passed the National Emergencies Act in 1976, although critics point out that in no previous such instance did a president invoke extraordinary powers as an end-run around lawmakers after failing to win legislative approval for a proposal.The lawsuit was authorized by the Bipartisan Legal Advisory Group, which consists of the top leaders of both parties in the House: Ms. Pelosi; Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the majority leader; Representative James E. Clyburn of South Carolina, the majority whip; Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the minority leader; and Representative Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the minority whip.The group met briefly on Thursday and voted along party lines to authorize the lawsuit. It is unclear when it will be filed.Legal action has been an option for House lawmakers since Mr. Trump declared a national emergency at the southwestern border in February to activate the power to redirect military construction funds, effectively trying to go around Congresss refusal to fund a border wall at the level he had demanded. Both chambers passed legislation that would have ended the national emergency, but Mr. Trump vetoed the bill  the first veto of his presidency  and the House could not muster enough votes to override it.On Thursday, a Pentagon spokesman said that final decisions about what military construction projects would have their funds repurposed for his declaration have not yet been made.The House will be joining several other lawsuits already filed. Plaintiffs in another suit challenging Mr. Trumps border-barrier plans sought on Thursday to expedite obtaining a judicial order to block the government from taking further steps toward building new border barriers  even as administration officials raced to spend what money they had as quickly as they could.The plaintiffs  the Sierra Club and the Southern Border Communities Coalition, which are represented by the American Civil Liberties Union  filed a motion for a preliminary injunction that would bar the administration from building new barriers near Yuma, Ariz., and El Paso until the litigation can be resolved on the merits. Last month, the Trump administration had identified those sectors as locations for new or replacement barrier projects, while redirecting $1 billion in excess military pay and pension funds for that purpose.That part of Mr. Trumps plans relies not on his high-profile invocation of emergency powers, but on another component that has received less attention: using the Pentagons separate authority to redirect some of its annual budget in order to beef up its counternarcotics programs, which in turn can be tapped for blocking smuggling along the border. Because that money must be spent before the fiscal year ends on Sept. 30, the administration is trying to move quickly to issue contracts.But the A.C.L.U. says that its clients are likely to prevail in their argument that it is unlawful for Mr. Trump to use such tactics to spend more on border barriers than Congress appropriated. Its motion maintains that freezing any further steps toward construction before a final ruling  even as the clock continues to tick toward the end of September  would be justified because any such construction would, among other things, disrupt these ecosystems and cause irreversible damage.That case is pending before a Federal District Court judge in Oakland, Calif., Haywood S. Gilliam Jr., who was appointed in 2014 by President Barack Obama. The plaintiffs have asked him to hold a hearing on the request on May 9.Thomas Gibbons-Neff contributed reporting.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byGood Tuesday morning. Breaking: JPMorgan Chase reported profit of $7.1 billion, or $1.98 a share, for the fourth quarter, missing analysts expectations. (Was this email forwarded to you? Sign up here.)This years economic indicators are not doing much to bolster confidence so far. The World Bank cut its growth forecast. China is pouring hundreds of billions of dollars into its slowing economy. Apples downgraded sales forecast, which led to a market sell-off, was just one of several warnings from major companies.This week, several large banks announce their earnings, along with the likes of Netflix, UnitedHealth and Delta Air Lines. Yesterday, Citigroup reported quarterly revenue of almost half a billion dollars less than analysts had expected, saying economic uncertainty had hurt its trading business.Almost all economists are forecasting a slowdown for 2019, Janet Yellen, the former Federal Reserve chairwoman, said in New York yesterday. She added:The global economy was firing on all cylinders in 2018 and now looks like weve got less strong and less synchronized global growth.The China factor: Companies seen as particularly vulnerable to a Chinese slowdown include Starbucks and, after passenger vehicle sales fell there for the first time in 28 years, Ford and General Motors. Alibabas president, Michael Evans, told a retail industry gathering yesterday that China has slowed down, blaming natural causes and trade tensions with the U.S.A helping hand from Beijing: Chinese officials said today that tax reductions on a larger scale were coming, following cuts for major industries and in personal income taxes. It also announced a cut for small companies.Britains Brexit vote: Prime Minister Theresa May puts her plan for withdrawing from the E.U. before Parliament later today, less than 75 days before exit would happen automatically. She is widely expected to lose, possibly by a wide margin, which could expose her to a no-confidence vote. European stocks opened higher, and market watchers are bracing for volatility after the vote, but Britons dont seem that worried yet.____________________________Todays DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Pacific Gas and Electric Company, the California utility that has been in financial crisis after deadly wildfires in the state, said yesterday that it would file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection by the end of the month.The company said its liability for damages from the wildfires could reach $30 billion, report the NYTs Ivan Penn, Thomas Fuller and Lisa Friedman. The bankruptcy announcement, made in a regulatory filing, pushed the companys shares down more than 50 percent and posed a challenge for state regulators, who will have to decide whether to raise electricity rates.The utilitys woes could be just part of a wider economic toll from climate change, which is fueling wildfires nationwide.The quick take: Lights will stay on, but power bills are likely to increase. Wildfire victims may have to accept smaller settlements. And California may find it harder to reach ambitious climate change goals.Market fallout: Investors have long considered utilities a safe bet, so this is a reminder that volatility can strike any industry. Shareholders could be wiped out and bondholders could take a hit.A complex bet: The P.G.&E. stock held by the Baupost Group, the hedge fund run by Seth Klarman, is part of a bigger wager on the utility. Baupost also bought $1 billion of legal claims that an insurer held against it.President Trump has repeatedly spoken of a revival in the American steel industry, crediting his trade policies.But its now 10 months since he imposed 25 percent tariffs on steel imports, and prices in the United States have returned to their old levels. Hiring remains stagnant, and investors are wary about the industrys long-term strength, the NYTs Alan Rappeport writes:Stock prices for some of the nations biggest steel manufacturers dropped by as much as 47 percent in 2018 amid fears of slowing global economic growth and the potential for Mr. Trump to reach trade deals that remove the tariffs.The industrys best hope would be major infrastructure legislation, which looks increasingly unlikely.More: President Trump said yesterday that tariffs had put pressure on Chinas weakening economy, but trade talks between the two nations have yielded little.President Trump spent a snowy weekend cooped up in the White House, serving fast food to the Clemson Tigers and not giving in to proposals to end the government shutdown. Yesterday, he rejected a suggestion by Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina to restart operations for three weeks while negotiating.Mr. Trump wants $5.7 billion for a wall along the border with Mexico, where his repeated references to a crisis have not always reflected reality. His supporters remain behind him, even in areas where the federal government is a major employer and even as polls show that most Americans blame Mr. Trump and Republicans for the shutdown. The shutdown is a further blow to farmers already hurt by the U.S.-China trade war, the head of the USA Dry Pea & Lentil Council told CNBC. President Trump addressed the Farm Bureau at its annual convention in New Orleans yesterday, urging farmers to look past short-term pain. National parks that havent been closed have been plagued by trash piles and destroyed property, leading Tim Boyle, the chief executive of Columbia Sportswear, to spend $80,000 on a print ad urging the government to make Americas parks open again. Stephen B. Burke, the chief executive of NBCUniversal, put Jeff Shell in charge of Hollywood operations, including the international business and Telemundo, and said Mark Lazarus would oversee the broadcast network, the news division, the cable networks and the sports group. (NYT) Zoox, an autonomous car start-up, hired Aicha Evans, senior vice president of strategy at Intel, as its chief executive. (FT) The chairman of the investment group JAB Holdings, Bart Becht, stepped down after a split with his two partners over some ambitious deal-making. (FT) Jon Korngold, a General Atlantic executive, will lead a new Blackstone business investing in fast-growing companies. (WSJ)Deals Newmont Mining said it would buy its rival Goldcorp, a $10 billion deal that would create the worlds largest gold miner and signal a revival of M&A in the industry. (Bloomberg) Telecom Italia made a bid for the Italian unit of BT Group, heating up competition for an asset rocked by an accounting scandal. (Bloomberg) SoftBank plans more investment in the construction start-up Katerra. (Information)Tech  NBCUniversal said it planned to start an ad-supported streaming video service in 2020. (WSJ) Intels board has been looking for a chief executive for six months. It hasnt decided yet, but wants to do so before the company reports earnings on Jan. 24. (Bloomberg) Pony.ai, a driverless car start-up in China, introduced a ride-hailing app for driverless cars. (CNBC) The worlds most retweeted tweet now belongs to Yusaku Maezawa, the Japanese online retail billionaire who was SpaceXs first passenger. It promises 100 of those who retweet it a share of a $923,000 prize. (CNBC) Tesla stock stumbled as rivals such as Ford and General Motors announced electric vehicle plans at the Detroit Auto Show. (CNBC) Google employees are starting a social media campaign against the use of forced arbitration in misconduct cases. There was a walkout on the issue in November. (CNBC)Politics and policy  Representative Steve King of Iowa was removed by House Republican leaders from the Judiciary and Agriculture Committees after saying he did not see why white supremacy was considered offensive. (NYT) President Trump likes the freedom to do as he pleases. His nominee for attorney general, William P. Barr, has a similarly permissive vision of executive power. (NYT) Mr. Barr said he would let Robert Mueller finish his investigation, but also suggested that he could not stop Mr. Trump from ordering him to end it. (NYT) In a political game of Would You Rather, Democrats mull whether the best candidate in 2020 will be defined by attractive policy proposals, or by likelihood of beating President Trump. (NYT) No, Ivanka Trump wont be the next World Bank president. But she will help the Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin, and the acting White House chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, to choose one. (WSJ)Best of the rest  Carlos Ghosn, the former Nissan chairman detained in Japan since November on allegations of financial misconduct, was denied bail. He faces two more months in jail before trial. (NYT) Fiat Chrysler jumped off the sedan bandwagon well before the other Detroit automakers. Maybe thats why it now seems the strongest of the bunch. (NYT) Coffee farmers in Central America, Colombia and Ethiopia are struggling to stay afloat as bean prices slump below a cent per cup. (Reuters) An enormous bet from an anonymous trader that could earn $175 million feels a lot like Warren Buffetts wager more than a decade ago. (CNBC) Gillette has a new ad inspired by #MeToo. Mens rights activists and right-wing publications dont like it. (Guardian) Mastercard is taking its name off its logo, leaving just interlocking red and yellow circles. (CNBC) Representative Elijah Cummings, Democrat of Maryland, opened an investigation into pharmaceutical price increases with letters to 12 drugmakers, including Amgen, Celgene, Eli Lilly and Johnson & Johnson. (Reuters) HSBC has processed more than three million foreign-exchange trades worth $250 billion using blockchain in the past year. (FT) TV marketing aimed at black Americans has surged more than 50 percent in the last five years, according to a new study, driven by food companies. (Bloomberg) European hedge funds are struggling to raise money from American investors because of the S.E.C.s concerns about E.U. data protection rules. (FT) Low unemployment need not lead to a surge in wages, according to the San Francisco Federal Reserve Bank. (Reuters) Passive funds had a record year in 2018, with 323 exchange traded funds listed in London, compared with 177 in 2017. (FT) FedEx has agreed to pay $35.5 million over claims that it delivered hundreds of thousands of illegal cigarettes in New York. (New York Daily News) At least two retailers, Walmart and Target, said they stopped selling Cut the Wire, a game that asks children to defuse a toy bomb, after parents complained. (NYT)Thanks for reading! Well see you on Wednesday. You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"The Westminster dog show has brought hundreds of dogs into Manhattan for two days of grooming, petting, barking and judging. CreditCreditKholood Eid for The New York TimesSupported byBy The New York TimesThey arrived by car and by bus and by train and even on their own four legs. Some strode onto the sidewalk and some skittered across the carpet. A few, almost certainly, let it be known that they expected to be carried by a human. All are here for this weeks Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show. All of them  the Affenpinschers and the Borzois, the Xoloitzcuintlins and the Yorkshire terriers  will hope to rise through breed and group judging on Monday and Tuesday at Pier 94 to a place on the floor on Tuesday night at Madison Square Garden where the best-in-show winner will be crowned. But before that big moment, there will be thousands of small ones. New York Times photographers have fanned out to catch as many as possible. [Your favorite dog breed probably didnt win Westminster. Heres why.]Trump, an Australian Shepherd, center, greeted a passenger while riding a shuttle to the Westminster Dog Show.A Chinese Crested dog plays at the Piers.An owner powdered Chester, a 13 inch Beagle and two-time breed winner, in corn starch.Mark Benson inspected Lamplighters Tattletail, a Silky Terrier.Buzz, a smooth coat Chihuahua, and Black Jack, a Yorkshire Terrier, at the Piers.Carol Fellbaum, left, and Susan Depew, right, groomed Donald, a Bichon Frise.Every element of the show seems to draw a crowd.A Lhasa on the judging table.Jango, a Keeshond, left, groomed at Madison Square Garden.Owners take their dogs to the ex-pens backstage.Palomino, a Grand Bassett Griffon Vendens, walked across the stage.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Azam Ahmed, Miriam Jordan and Elisabeth MalkinTIJUANA, Mexico  The government of Mexico said Friday that it disagreed with the Trump administrations decision to roll out a policy that forces asylum seekers to wait in Mexico while they pursue their cases in the United States  but said it would take in some of the asylum seekers anyway.In a statement, the Mexican government said that it does not agree with this unilateral measure implemented by the government of the United States and outlined the conditions that it had negotiated since the Department of Homeland Security announced the plan a month ago.Roberto Velasco, a spokesman for Mexicos Foreign Ministry, said it was trying to respond to U.S. policy with respect to the nations own immigration policy. Were making a sovereign decision to allow some people into Mexico with very clear limits based on what our laws and international commitments allow, he said.The policy, which the Trump administration said Thursday it would begin to implement, marks an escalation in the administrations attempt to rein in illegal immigration and a dramatic reversal of the decades-long practice of allowing applicants to request protection from within the United States or at official ports of entry, and to remain in the country while their cases wind through immigration courts.If applied to a majority of asylum applicants, it could potentially flood Mexican border towns like Tijuana with thousands more people seeking protection in the United States.Currently, most migrants who request asylum at the border are released within days with a notice to appear at an immigration court in the interior of the country for their proceedings, a practice that President Trump has derided as catch and release. It takes years for cases to advance through the courts. Only 20 percent of all asylum applicants ultimately win the right to remain permanently in the country. That figure is even lower, 10 percent, for Central Americans, who account for most of those requesting asylum at the border.Mexican officials said on Friday that they had held three meetings to discuss the proposal with their counterparts in the United States since it was first announced on Dec. 20, but that ultimately the Department of Homeland Security decided unilaterally to send the first returnees.Still, President Andrs Manuel Lpez Obrador of Mexico has said he would welcome migrants and promised to respect human rights while affording them economic opportunities here in Mexico. The migrants would be granted yearlong humanitarian visas to live and work in Mexico while they await court hearings on the American side. Those court hearings would have to be scheduled within the year, officials said.The Trump administration said the measure would curtail illegal immigration while remaining faithful to international law.For far too long, our immigration system has been exploited by smugglers, traffickers and those with no legal right to be in the United States, said Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of homeland security, on Thursday.The Department of Homeland Security said that the claims for those returned would be adjudicated within a year, with an initial hearing held within 45 days. But immigration courts are already clogged with 800,0000 pending cases, raising questions about whether this timetable can be achieved, experts said.The policy would apply both to some asylum seekers who try to enter the United States at border crossings and to those apprehended by the authorities after illegally touching United States soil.Historically, undocumented single men have represented the bulk of those arrested and subsequently removed from the county. But since 2013, unaccompanied children and families have arrived in ever-larger numbers.That influx of people was cited by a Department of Homeland Security fact sheet as justification for the policy. Children cannot be detained for more than 72 hours in border holding facilities, prompting the authorities to release their adult parents with them, and the fact sheet referred to a shift in the profile of immigrants reaching the border, from a demographic who could be quickly removed when they had no legal right to stay to one that cannot be detained and timely removed.Analysts and lawyers raised other questions about the program.Human rights groups questioned the ethics of sending people fleeing in search of safety back into Mexico, which itself is experiencing horrific violence. Politically, some have asked why Mexicos new president would essentially agree to turn his country into a waiting room for American asylum seekers.The Mexican government has cautioned that the details of who would be returned and when were still unclear. But in its statement, the government said that it would not accept unaccompanied children or people suffering from health problems. Mexico has yet to agree to accept families, but opened the door for future discussions.Also unclear were the logistics of how the asylum seekers would be taken back into the United States for hearings, or how they might obtain legal counsel while waiting in Mexico.Lawsuits challenging the policy, which may expand to other border areas, are widely expected.Immigrant advocates criticized the administration for what they regard as a denial of due process to asylum seekers fleeing extreme violence or persecution in their home countries and making a harrowing trek to reach the United States.Once again, the Trump administration is doing everything they can to sabotage the asylum process and harm those who come to us in need of protection, said Betsy Fisher, policy director for the International Refugee Assistance Project in New York.They cautioned that the policy will imperil the lives of immigrants, including many families with children, stuck in encampments and shelters in Mexico. Already, asylum seekers are waiting months  during which some sleep outdoors  to put in their applications.Whether in shelters or not, the families are sitting ducks for criminal organizations, said Lee Gelernt, an attorney with the American Civil Liberties Union who fought in federal court to reunite migrant parents and children who were separated during a border crackdown last year. Family separations were officially suspended in late June.Csar Palencia, who is in charge of migrant affairs for the city of Tijuana, said that the city had received no information from the Mexican government about the plan and was not ready to receive more migrants.Tijuana did not have the space to accommodate them or resources to incorporate them, and did not want to convert itself into a kind of shelter for these returned migrants, he said.The border city is already overwhelmed with Mexicans deported from the United States, who arrive at the rate of 120 people each day, as well as with migrants from Central America and other countries who have come seeking entry into the United States.Tijuana is still dealing with the aftermath of the last big caravan of Central American migrants. Of some 7,000 people who arrived in November, between 1,500 and 2,000 remained in Tijuana, he said. Another caravan of between 10,000 and 12,000 migrants is heading north from southern Mexico, many likely toward Tijuana.About 1,200 people are on a list awaiting an interview with United States immigration authorities to seek asylum. Their stay could extend to at least one year if they are returned to Tijuana to wait for a court decision after making a claim.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBest of Late NightBy Giovanni RussonelloWelcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous nights highlights that lets you sleep  and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If youre interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.President Trump has drawn fire from some critics for his response to the shootings at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand, on Friday that left 50 people dead. The suspect in the attack had praised Trump in a manifesto, calling him a symbol of renewed white identity and common purpose.Stephen Colbert played a tape of New Zealands prime minister, Jacinda Ardern, saying that she had asked Trump to express his sympathy and love for all Muslim communities. Colbert then joked that he didnt expect that to pan out.Thats not really Trumps brand. Trump has trouble showing love for things that are not him. And he has a particularly bad record with Muslims, in this regard.  STEPHEN COLBERTTrump did publicly express his sympathies for the victims, but Colbert was not satisfied. Over the weekend, Trump continued to push for the building of a border wall, using the word invasion to describe the flow of immigrants on the southern border. (The New Zealand gunman also used that word). And the president tweeted his discontent with Fox News after it suspended the host Jeanine Pirro because she expressed anti-Muslim views.On the one hand, after a terrorist act, to condemn the extremist ideology of the terrorist should be a slam dunk. On the other hand, he cant jump.""  STEPHEN COLBERTColbert played clips of Mick Mulvaney, the presidents acting chief of staff, on the Sunday morning news shows explaining that he couldnt be held responsible for how Trump responded to the New Zealand shootings. Thats not how the system works, Mulvaney said on CBSs Face the Nation. The president communicates in his way.Mulvaney answered like the worst parent at the local school. Uh, we dont like to tell Braden what to do. He communicates in his own way, O.K.? And for the record, hes not biting the other children. Hes kissing them with his teeth.  STEPHEN COLBERTPresident Trump this morning called former Vice President Joe Biden a low-I.Q. individual. Wow. Thats gotta hurt. I mean Trump trying to pronounce, individual.  SETH MEYERSHealth experts are saying that the snooze button is bad for your health, and theyre telling Apple to take the feature off of their phones. In response, Apple was like, O.K., well take it off, just give me like nine more minutes.  JIMMY FALLONSeth Meyers broke down Trumps unhinged Twitter rant from this weekend.Jimmy Kimmel to a very unhygienic Nick Kroll: I just want to get a bracket.Senator Kamala Harris, who is running for president, will sit down with Kimmel on Tuesday.Whats on TV Tuesday? A new Amy Schumer Netflix special, the return of the Australian-born late-night host Jim Jefferies and much more, it turns out.Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight:The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right NowThe 25 Best Films of the 21st CenturyThe Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right NowAdvertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byIts irresponsible to pretend that America can add splashy new social programs without finding a way to pay for them.By Steven RattnerMr. Rattner served as counselor to the Treasury secretary in the Obama administration.Medicare for All. The Green New Deal. Free college tuition.With each new entrant into the Democratic presidential sweepstakes comes a fresh cascade of ambitious social programs to entice and excite would-be supporters.The list of payfors, to use a bit of Washington jargon, grows more slowly. Theyll pay for this how, again? Tax the rich, tax the rich  or take cover behind a convenient bit of progressive dogma: Dont worry about the fiscal impact because Americas rising budget deficits and debt levels dont much matter.Thats a scary drift of thought, and it should set off alarm bells for all Americans. Vast increases in debt will ultimately compromise Washingtons ability to maintain its current array of spending programs, let alone add new ones, and threaten our standard of living.A short history: While Republicans once were the party of fiscal responsibility, President Ronald Reagan threw that out the window by embracing enormous tax cuts justified by a fiction: the idea that the resulting growth would more than pay for them.More than a decade later, President Bill Clinton nursed the budget back into surplus, only to have President George W. Bush force through his own tax cuts. His vice president, Dick Cheney, once reportedly said, Reagan proved deficits dont matter.That attitude, plus the puncturing of the dot-com bubble, two wars and a financial crisis, brought us our first $1 trillion gap in 2009. But by 2015, President Barack Obama had whittled the deficit down to $439 billion.Then came President Trump, with his vast tax cuts along with a bipartisan move to abandon spending restraint with the fiscal 2018 budget. The resulting legislation added $400 billion to the deficit, according to an estimate from the Committee for a Responsible Budget, and the consequence is a deficit for the current fiscal year of nearly $900 billion.On present course and speed, the United States is on track to experience the highest deficits in its history, reaching more than $2 trillion a year by 2029. Those annual gaps are projected to bring Americas total debt to nearly $33 trillion by that date, according to the Committee for a Responsible Budget. Thats double todays level and more than the size of our economy, a peacetime record.One concern often raised by deficit hawks is that so much borrowing by the government could force interest rates higher, making it harder for businesses to borrow and reducing the amount of capital available to the private sector. In the worst case scenario, they fear that credit markets could partially or completely shut down, putting a hard brake on the economy.While thats not impossible, my principal fear is that all this irresponsible borrowing amounts to intergenerational theft. America is simultaneously indulging in two deficit-busting desires: for lower taxes and for robust government programs. Eventually, the interest on all the debt will force the governments of future generations to reverse those fiscally imprudent policies in order to pay for todays profligacy.Its like a couple in their 40s deciding to borrow money to sustain a lavish lifestyle and then leaving the debts for their kids to pay off after theyre gone.But thats not all. The generally accepted measure of Americas national debt doesnt include obligations for future retirement and health care benefits.In a perfect world, those programs would function like insurance; each generations annual premiums would pay for support received during its golden years. That principle was abandoned long ago. Based on the current demographics of the American population, we would need to set aside $49 trillion to make the Medicare and Social Security Trust Funds truly solvent.Meanwhile, progressives argue that certain kinds of spending are, in reality, investments that will bring large dividends in the future. With interest rates still near historic lows, they contend that the returns from borrowing for these investments would greatly exceed interest costs.While thats true, deciding what is an investment and what is just an expense with no potential return would inevitably become a political debate. Democrats and Republicans might quickly agree about investing in building roads and bridges but what about spending on education? Should that be considered an investment? What about work force training or research and development? I fear that in the end, many spending programs would be classified as investments simply to make the budget deficit appear smaller.Regardless, taxes need to go up, starting with unwinding the Trump tax cuts for individuals, which favored the rich. Next, we should take a tougher look at corporate taxation. Reducing the corporate tax rate to maintain our global competitiveness made sense, but it didnt need to go all the way from 35 percent to 21 percent.Then there are potential new sources of tax revenue. Ive expressed support, for example, for eliminating the special treatment of capital gains and dividends. Lets also reform overly generous estate tax provisions. While Im all for putting most of the burden on the rich, we need to be mindful of realistic boundaries to ensure that tax avoidance or even expatriation dont start to rise.On the spending side, unfortunately, taking a hard look at the entitlements programs is essential. Im not suggesting eviscerating them, but ideas like modestly raising the retirement age or scaling benefits based on need should be explored.Even implementing all these adjustments wont prudently provide room for expansive new social programs. Adopting those would require still tougher choices about raising taxes and trimming spending.If we care about our kids and the country we are leaving them, Americans will make these tough decisions instead of continuing to duck them.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Steven Rattner, a counselor to the Treasury secretary in the Obama administration, is a Wall Street executive and a contributing opinion writer.For latest updates and posts, please visitstevenrattner.comand follow me onTwitter(@SteveRattner) andFacebook.

  Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Thomas ErdbrinkTEHRAN  Iranian officials said on Tuesday that a satellite launch that had been condemned by the Trump administration failed when the carrier rocket could not reach orbit.I would have liked to make you happy with some good news, but sometimes life does not go as expected, Irans minister of telecommunications, Mohammad Javad Azari Jahromi, said in a Twitter post.He said the rocket, a Safir, long used for satellite launches, had failed in the final stage, falling short of placing its payload into the correct orbit. He did not offer any explanation.The United States, Israel and some European countries have criticized Iranian missile tests in the past, saying the launches pose a threat to the region. One reason President Trump gave for withdrawing from the 2015 nuclear deal was its failure to address the threat of Irans ballistic missiles.Secretary of State Mike Pompeo warned Iran on Jan. 3 against launching spacecraft, describing the exercises as a pretext for testing missile technology that Tehran could one day use to carry a warhead to the United States or other nations. His statement appeared aimed at building a legal case for diplomatic, military or covert action against the Iranian missile program.Mr. Pompeos words were something of a surprise, in that Iran has conducted modest space missions, mostly to deploy satellites, since 2005. A senior American official told The New York Times recently that the Pentagon and intelligence agencies disagreed with Mr. Pompeos interpretation of the threat posed by the satellite launches.Denouncing the Iranian launch on Tuesday as continued defiance of the international community, Mr. Pompeo appeared to disregard what Iran described as the failure of the rockets final stage.Such vehicles incorporate technologies that are virtually identical and interchangeable with those used in ballistic missiles, including intercontinental ballistic missiles, he said in a statement. Todays launch furthers Irans ability to eventually build such a weapon.Iran says that it needs rockets for its space program and missiles for self-defense, and that it has every right to conduct missile tests.Since we have no intentions to secretly or openly produce nuclear weapons, we believe we have the right to manufacture and develop satellites and rockets and missiles to launch them into orbit, said Hamidreza Taraghi, a hard-line politician. Other countries do not give us the satellites we need, nor do they launch them for us, so we have to do it ourselves.Irans president, Hassan Rouhani, had announced on Monday plans to launch two satellites, praising Iranian ingenuity. He said the satellites, called Friendship and Message, were intended to monitor weather, agriculture, water and forestry issues in the country.It is unclear when Iran will try to launch the second satellite.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byCould the Trump campaign really not have known that in dealing with WikiLeaks it was dealing with Russia?By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.In his indictment of the Trump torpedo Roger Stone, the special counsel Robert Mueller noted that on June 14, 2016, the Democratic National Committee announced that it had been hacked by Russian government actors. According to the indictment, unsealed Friday, Mr. Stone participated in and helped conceal an effort by the Trump campaign to cooperate with WikiLeaks in publicizing thousands of emails stolen from the Clinton campaign, which was done to devastating political effect. Mr. Stone stands accused of obstructing an official proceeding, making multiple false statements to Congress and tampering with a witness.Around June and July of 2016, the indictment says, Mr. Stone told senior Trump campaign officials that WikiLeaks possessed stolen emails that would damage Hillary Clintons chances of being president. It released the first batch on July 22, roiling the Democratic National Convention, which began three days later. Maybe Mr. Trump and his associates had no idea who stole the emails and did not connect this bonanza with Russian government actors.Mr. Trump and his associates might have thought that Julian Assange, the WikiLeaks founder, was just being a mischievous scamp, not passing along communications stolen by Russian intelligence, most of which came from the hacker Guccifer 2.0, an online persona created by Russian military intelligence officers. Mr. Stone said in 2017 that he had carried out completely innocuous private Twitter exchanges with Guccifer 2.0 during the presidential campaign. But then why did Mr. Trump say, five days after the first WikiLeaks release, Russia, if youre listening, I hope youre able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing. I think you will probably be rewarded mightily by our press.And might not the Trump circle have suspected that WikiLeaks was working with Russia after Donald Trump Jr., Jared Kushner and the campaign chairman Paul Manafort met at Trump Tower on June 9, 2016, with Russians who were peddling dirt on Mrs. Clinton?And if Mr. Trumps first F.B.I. intelligence briefing on Aug. 17, 2016, included a warning about Russian espionage, as NBC News reported in 2017, why didnt Mr. Trump or anyone else in the campaign tell the agents about the meeting or the suspicious release of emails?After the first WikiLeaks release, the indictment says, a senior Trump Campaign official was directed  presumably by someone even more senior  to contact Mr. Stone about what dirt the group had on the Clinton campaign. If the Trump campaign had not known that it was getting dirt from Russia, why did George Papadopoulos, a campaign adviser whom Mr. Trump called an excellent guy, plead guilty to lying about his contact with a professor who said he had dirt from Russia on Mrs. Clinton? (Mr. Papadopouloss lawyer said his client had taken his cues from Mr. Trump, and that the president of the United States hindered this investigation more than George Papadopoulos ever could.) Why did the former national security adviser Michael Flynn plead guilty to falsely telling the F.B.I. that he had not talked to the Russian ambassador about easing economic sanctions? And why did Mr. Trump craft a false story about the Trump Tower meeting, and falsely claim again and again that he had no business dealings with Russia even when his associates were negotiating with aides to President Vladimir Putin about a project in Moscow that could have earned him hundreds of millions of dollars?Mr. Trumps former adviser Steve Bannon told the author Michael Wolff that he thought the Trump Tower meeting was treasonous. Yet he had no problem cooperating with WikiLeaks, according to the indictment. He is apparently the high-ranking Trump Campaign official who asked Mr. Stone on Oct. 4, 2016, about future WikiLeaks releases. Three days later, after the first stolen emails from Mrs. Clintons campaign chairman, John Podesta, were released, one of Mr. Bannons associates texted Mr. Stone, well done.No one should jump to conclusions in this case. As president, Mr. Trump may have held himself to be above the law, but he is entitled to the presumption of innocence. For their part, the American people are entitled to some answers.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON  More than 18,000 activists will converge in Washington on Sunday for the annual conference of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, as Democrats wrestle with the lefts rising criticism of Israel and as President Trump seeks to divide his political rivals while bolstering Israels embattled leader.In some respects, the three-day Aipac conference will look much as it has in years past. American and Israeli luminaries will speak, including Israels prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, Vice President Mike Pence, Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Mr. Netanyahus main challenger in Israels election next month, Benny Gantz. It will wrap up on Tuesday with a lobbying day, when thousands of activists will flock to Capitol Hill to press Aipacs legislative agenda.But this years confab is playing out in a changed and charged Washington political environment. Mr. Trump and his fellow Republicans have spent weeks lobbing accusations of anti-Semitism at Democrats, although the party remains the home of the vast majority of American Jews. And Democrats are under mounting pressure from their left flank to distance themselves from Aipac, which aligns itself closely with Mr. Netanyahus far-right policies.A string of Democratic presidential candidates  Senators Bernie Sanders of Vermont, Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Kamala Harris of California, as well as Beto ORourke and Julin Castro, among others  are skipping the conference. A group of freshman Democrats in the House, Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, Rashida Tlaib of Michigan and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, has emerged as forthright critics of Israel and the United States policy tilt toward the Israeli government.Those trends will stand in stark contrast to Mr. Trumps embrace of Mr. Netanyahu, who will meet the president for talks at the White House on Monday and at a dinner on Tuesday.I dont know what happened to them, but they are totally anti-Israel, Mr. Trump said on Friday of the Democrats. Frankly, I think theyre anti-Jewish.The swirl around this years conference represents two new realities, said Aaron David Miller, an expert on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict at the Wilson Center, a Washington-based foreign affairs research organization.The first is the deepening generational divide in the Democratic Party, which will be reflected in protests by progressive Jews outside the conference while older Democrats like Ms. Pelosi and Representative Steny H. Hoyer, the majority leader, address delegates inside. Mr. Trump might call Democrats anti-Jewish, but Jewish Democrats hold the gavels of some of the most powerful committees in the House  Judiciary, Appropriations, Foreign Affairs, Intelligence, Budget and Ethics  as well as the post of Senate Democratic leader. But a younger generation of Democrats is clashing with that old guard.The second is the divide in Israeli politics, which will be reflected in the competing speeches by Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Gantz.These conferences are supposed to be cohesive unity builders, Mr. Miller said. But, he added, rarely has Israeli politics been more divided, and Aipac is going to mirror those divisions.Republicans will almost certainly use the conference to portray their party as the home for Israels supporters. Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, is expected to talk about legislative efforts to support Israel and to oppose anti-Semitism. Representative Kevin McCarthy, the House Republican leader, will tell conferees that Aipac should not be boycotted. Aipac should be celebrated, said his spokesman, Matt Sparks.For Democrats  who for decades have relied on the Jewish vote  the task will be trickier. They must reiterate their support for the Jewish state without alienating progressives, including millennials and many young Jews who are increasingly willing to accuse Israel of human rights abuses.It will be interesting to see if Democratic leaders who are going to be speaking at Aipac are going to be speaking about Israeli policy as well, where they see differences with them, said Yousef Munayyer, the executive director of the U.S. Campaign for Palestinian Rights. The applause lines that are going to go over well with Aipac are not going to go over well with the rest of the Democratic Party. That tension will really be on display here.Mr. Hoyer, the Democratic leader, will speak on Sunday evening. He plans to remind his audience that the Jewish state and the United States-Israel relationship have broad, bipartisan support because most Americans see them as integral to standing up for Americas values and our national security and interests, according to a spokeswoman, Annaliese Davis. He will also talk about what Israel and America have in common as fellow democracies, and the threat posed by Iran.Washington, meanwhile, has been gearing up.Mr. Trump announced on Thursday that the United States should recognize Israels authority over the Golan Heights, a reversal of longstanding policy against accepting territorial changes acquired by force. The strategic area was seized from Syria in the Six-Day War of 1967. The policy-by-tweet was a valuable election-eve gift to Mr. Netanyahu.In the Senate, Mr. McConnell and his colleagues are eager to take concrete legislative steps to demonstrate support for American Jews  and to reignite a divisive debate that erupted this month among House Democrats, after Ms. Omar suggested that supporters of Israel were pushing for allegiance to a foreign country. That and other comments prompted the House to pass a resolution condemning all forms of bigotry, despite the wishes of veteran Jewish lawmakers who wanted it centered on anti-Semitism.Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, has been circulating a resolution condemning anti-Semitism in isolation  a not-so-subtle effort to draw a contrast with the House. Mr. Cruz has also joined Senators Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas, and Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, in proposing legislation to codify Israels authority over the Golan Heights.In the House, Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York, moved last week to fulfill one of Aipacs legislative priorities: a congressional resolution opposing the boycott, divestment and sanctions movement, known as B.D.S., which is aimed, in part, at pressuring Israel to improve its treatment of Palestinians. But the resolution, which is nonbinding, is much weaker than another Aipac-backed measure that the Republican-controlled Senate adopted last month.Founded more than 50 years ago to strengthen, protect and promote the U.S.-Israel relationship, Aipac, which is bipartisan, is today widely regarded as one of the most influential lobbying groups in Washington. It does not endorse or donate to political candidates, though it encourages its members to do so, and maintains relationships with every lawmaker on Capitol Hill.This year, the organizations activists will press Congress for the adoption of Mr. Nadlers anti-B.D.S. resolution, security assistance for Israel, enhanced cooperation between the United States and Israel in areas such as security and technology and a letter to the Trump administration about the threats on Israels northern border from Iran and its surrogates, an Aipac official said.But there is evidence that Aipacs influence is waning, and its rightward tilt has strained its claims of bipartisanship. A number of Democrats in Congress have fled to J Street, a liberal Jewish political action committee that also bills itself as pro-Israel.The conference and the political dynamics around it are the political fruits that are reaped by the partisanship that Netanyahu has sown, said Jeremy Ben-Ami, the president of J Street, adding that Mr. Netanyahus bromance with the president has turned Israel into a partisan issue in the United States, which is not in the best interest of the state of Israel and not in the best interest of the Jewish community.MoveOn, the progressive advocacy group, urged Democratic presidential candidates not to attend the Aipac conference this year. Some who have attended in the past, such as Ms. Harris, did not share why they are sitting this years conference out. But Mr. Sanders, who has not attended in the past, took the occasion to issue a strong anti-Aipac statement through his policy director, Josh Orton.Mr. Orton said the senator was concerned about the platform Aipac is providing for leaders who have expressed bigotry and oppose a two-state solution  an obvious jab at Mr. Netanyahu, whose recent pact with a racist anti-Arab party has prompted so much outrage in the United States and Israel that even Aipac criticized it.IfNotNow, an advocacy organization of progressive young Jews, is planning protests under the #ResistAIPAC hashtag and has gathered thousands of signatures on a petition saying, Aipac doesnt represent me as a Jew, said Emily Mayer, a founding member of the group. Ms. Mayer said she had a message for Ms. Pelosi and the other Democratic leaders on the agenda.Its clear that theyre not the future of the party, theyre the past, she said. The future of the party rests in a different set of politics that Aipac doesnt represent.Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to Senator Amy Klobuchar. It is not the case that she will be speaking this year at the annual conference of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee.OpinionMark HorowitzAdvertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy David E. Sanger, Julian E. Barnes, Raymond Zhong and Marc SantoraJeremy Hunt, the British foreign minister, arrived in Washington last week for a whirlwind of meetings facing a critical question: Should Britain risk its relationship with Beijing and agree to the Trump administrations request to ban Huawei, Chinas leading telecommunications producer, from building its next-generation computer and phone networks?Britain is not the only American ally feeling the heat. In Poland, officials are also under pressure from the United States to bar Huawei from building its fifth generation, or 5G, network. Trump officials suggested that future deployments of American troops  including the prospect of a permanent base labeled Fort Trump  could hinge on Polands decision.And a delegation of American officials showed up last spring in Germany, where most of Europes giant fiber-optic lines connect and Huawei wants to build the switches that make the system hum. Their message: Any economic benefit of using cheaper Chinese telecom equipment is outweighed by the security threat to the NATO alliance.Over the past year, the United States has embarked on a stealthy, occasionally threatening, global campaign to prevent Huawei and other Chinese firms from participating in the most dramatic remaking of the plumbing that controls the internet since it sputtered into being, in pieces, 35 years ago.The administration contends that the world is engaged in a new arms race  one that involves technology, rather than conventional weaponry, but poses just as much danger to Americas national security. In an age when the most powerful weapons, short of nuclear arms, are cyber-controlled, whichever country dominates 5G will gain an economic, intelligence and military edge for much of this century.The transition to 5G  already beginning in prototype systems in cities from Dallas to Atlanta  is likely to be more revolutionary than evolutionary. What consumers will notice first is that the network is faster  data should download almost instantly, even over cellphone networks.It is the first network built to serve the sensors, robots, autonomous vehicles and other devices that will continuously feed each other vast amounts of data, allowing factories, construction sites and even whole cities to be run with less moment-to-moment human intervention. It will also enable greater use of virtual reality and artificial intelligence tools.But what is good for consumers is also good for intelligence services and cyberattackers. The 5G system is a physical network of switches and routers. But it is more reliant on layers of complex software that are far more adaptable, and constantly updating, in ways invisible to users  much as an iPhone automatically updates while charging overnight. That means whoever controls the networks controls the information flow  and may be able to change, reroute or copy data without users knowledge.In interviews with current and former senior American government officials, intelligence officers and top telecommunications executives, it is clear that the potential of 5G has created a zero-sum calculus in the Trump White House  a conviction that there must be a single winner in this arms race, and the loser must be banished. For months, the White House has been drafting an executive order, expected in the coming weeks, that would effectively ban United States companies from using Chinese-origin equipment in critical telecommunications networks. That goes far beyond the existing rules, which ban such equipment only from government networks.Nervousness about Chinese technology has long existed in the United States, fueled by the fear that the Chinese could insert a back door into telecom and computing networks that would allow Chinese security services to intercept military, government and corporate communications. And Chinese cyberintrusions of American companies and government entities have occurred repeatedly, including by hackers suspected of working on behalf of Chinas Ministry of State Security.But the concern has taken on more urgency as countries around the world begin deciding which equipment providers will build their 5G networks.American officials say the old process of looking for back doors in equipment and software made by Chinese companies is the wrong approach, as is searching for ties between specific executives and the Chinese government. The bigger issue, they argue, is the increasingly authoritarian nature of the Chinese government, the fading line between independent business and the state and new laws that will give Beijing the power to look into, or maybe even take over, networks that companies like Huawei have helped build and maintain.Its important to remember that Chinese company relationships with the Chinese government arent like private sector company relationships with governments in the West, said William R. Evanina, the director of Americas National Counterintelligence and Security Center. Chinas 2017 National Intelligence Law requires Chinese companies to support, provide assistance and cooperate in Chinas national intelligence work, wherever they operate.The White Houses focus on Huawei coincides with the Trump administrations broader crackdown on China, which has involved sweeping tariffs on Chinese goods, investment restrictions and the indictments of several Chinese nationals accused of hacking and cyberespionage. President Trump has accused China of ripping off our country and plotting to grow stronger at Americas expense.Mr. Trumps views, combined with a lack of hard evidence implicating Huawei in any espionage, have prompted some countries to question whether Americas campaign is really about national security or if it is aimed at preventing China from gaining a competitive edge.Administration officials see little distinction in those goals.President Trump has identified overcoming this economic problem as critical, not simply to right the balance economically, to make China play by the rules everybody else plays by, but to prevent an imbalance in political/military power in the future as well, John R. Bolton, Mr. Trumps national security adviser, told The Washington Times on Friday. The two aspects are very closely tied together in his mind.The administration is warning allies that the next six months are critical. Countries are beginning to auction off radio spectrum for new, 5G cellphone networks and decide on multibillion-dollar contracts to build the underlying switching systems. This past week, the Federal Communications Commission announced that it had concluded its first high-band 5G spectrum auction.The Chinese government sees this moment as its chance to wire the world  especially European, Asian and African nations that find themselves increasingly beholden to Chinese economic power.This will be almost more important than electricity, said Chris Lane, a telecom analyst in Hong Kong for Sanford C. Bernstein. Everything will be connected, and the central nervous system of these smart cities will be your 5G network.So far, the fear swirling around Huawei is almost entirely theoretical. Current and former American officials whisper that classified reports implicate the company in possible Chinese espionage but have produced none publicly. Others familiar with the secret case against the company say there is no smoking gun  just a heightened concern about the firms rising technological dominance and the new Chinese laws that require Huawei to submit to requests from Beijing.Ren Zhengfei, Huaweis founder, has denied that his company spied for China. I still love my country. I support the Communist Party of China. But I will never do anything to harm any other nation, he said earlier this month.Australia last year banned Huawei and another Chinese manufacturer, ZTE, from supplying 5G equipment. Other nations are wrestling with whether to follow suit and risk inflaming China, which could hamper their access to the growing Chinese market and deprive them of cheaper Huawei products.Government officials in places like Britain note that Huawei has already invested heavily in older-style networks  and has employed Britons to build and run them. And they argue that Huawei isnt going away  it will run the networks of half the world, or more, and will have to be connected, in some way, to the networks of the United States and its allies.Yet BT Group, the British telecom giant, has plans to rip out part of Huaweis existing network. The company says that was part of its plans after acquiring a firm that used existing Huawei equipment; American officials say it came after Britains intelligence services warned of growing risks. And Vodafone Group, which is based in London, said on Friday that it would temporarily stop buying Huawei equipment for parts of its 5G network.Nations have watched warily as China has retaliated against countries that cross it. In December, Canada arrested a top Huawei executive, Meng Wanzhou, at the request of the United States. Ms. Meng, who is Mr. Rens daughter, has been accused of defrauding banks to help Huaweis business evade sanctions against Iran. Since her arrest, China has detained two Canadian citizens and sentenced to death a third Canadian, who had previously been given 15 years in prison for drug smuggling.Europe is fascinating because they have to take sides, said Philippe Le Corre, nonresident senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. They are in the middle. All these governments, they need to make decisions. Huawei is everywhere.This month, the Polish government made two high-profile espionage arrests: a former intelligence official, Piotr Durbajlo, and Wang Weijing, an employee of Huawei. The arrests are the strongest evidence so far that links Huawei with spying activities.Mr. Wang, who was quickly fired by Huawei, has been accused of working for Chinese intelligence agencies, said a top former Polish intelligence official. Mr. Wang, according to American diplomats, was the handler of Mr. Durbajlo, who appears to have helped the Chinese penetrate the Polish governments most secure communications network.A senior American official said the case was a prime example of how the Chinese government plants intelligence operatives inside Huaweis vast global network. Those operatives potentially have access to overseas communications networks and can conduct espionage that the affected companies are not aware of, the official said.Huawei said Mr. Wang had brought disrepute on the company and his actions had nothing to do with its operations.Mr. Wangs lawyer, Bartlomiej Jankowski, says his client has been caught up in a geopolitical tug of war between the United States and China.American and British officials had already grown concerned about Huaweis abilities after cybersecurity experts, combing through the companys source code to look for back doors, determined that Huawei could remotely access and control some networks from the companys Shenzhen headquarters.On careful examination, the code that Huawei had installed in its network-control software did not appear to be malicious. Nor was it hidden. It appeared to be part of a system to update remote networks and diagnose trouble. But in some circumstances, it could also route traffic around corporate data centers  where firms monitor and control their networks  and its mere existence is now cited as evidence that hackers or Chinese intelligence could use Huawei equipment to penetrate millions of networks.American officials and academics say Chinese telecommunications companies have also temporarily hijacked parts of the internet, rerouting basic traffic from the United States and Canada to China.One academic paper, co-written by Chris C. Demchak, a Naval War College professor, outlined how traffic from Canada meant for South Korea was redirected to China for six months. That 2016 attack has been repeated, according to American officials, and provides opportunity for espionage.Last year, AT&T and Verizon stopped selling Huawei phones in their stores after Huawei begin equipping the devices with its own sets of computer chips  rather than relying on American or European manufacturers. The National Security Agency quietly raised alarms that with Huawei supplying its own parts, the Chinese company would control every major element of its networks. The N.S.A. feared it would no longer be able to rely on American and European providers to warn of any evidence of malware, spying or other covert action.In three decades, Huawei has transformed itself from a small reseller of low-end phone equipment into a global giant with a dominant position in one of the crucial technologies of the new century.Last year, Huawei edged out Apple as the second-biggest provider of cellphones around the world. Richard Yu, who heads the companys consumer business, said in Beijing several days ago that even without the U.S. market we will be No. 1 in the world, by the end of this year or sometime in 2020.The company was founded in 1987 by Mr. Ren, a former Peoples Liberation Army engineer who has become one of Chinas most successful entrepreneurs.American officials say the company started through imitation, and even theft, of American technology. Cisco Systems sued Huawei in 2003, saying it had illegally copied the American companys source code. The two companies settled out of court.But Huawei did not just imitate. It opened research centers (including one in California) and built alliances with leading universities around the world. Last year, it generated $100 billion in revenue, twice as much as Cisco and significantly more than IBM. Its ability to deliver well-made equipment at a lower cost than Western firms drove once-dominant players like Motorola and Lucent out of the telecom-equipment industry.While American officials refuse to discuss it, the government snooping was a two-way street. As early as 2010, the N.S.A. secretly broke into Huaweis headquarters, in an operation, code-named Shotgiant, a discovery revealed by Edward J. Snowden, the former N.S.A. contractor now living in exile in Moscow.Documents show that the N.S.A. was looking to prove suspicions that Huawei was secretly controlled by the Peoples Liberation Army  and that Mr. Ren never really left the powerful army unit. It never found the evidence, according to former officials. But the Snowden documents also show that the N.S.A. had another goal: to better understand Huaweis technology and look for potential back doors. This way, when the company sold equipment to American adversaries, the N.S.A. would be able to target those nations computer and telephone networks to conduct surveillance and, if necessary, offensive cyberoperations.In other words, the Americans were trying to do to Huawei the exact thing they are now worried Huawei will do to the United States.After an uproar in 2013 about Huaweis growing dominance in Britain, the countrys powerful Intelligence and Security Committee, a parliamentary body, argued for banning Huawei, partly because of Chinese cyberattacks aimed at the British government. It was overruled, but Britain created a system to require that Huawei make its hardware and source code available to GCHQ, the countrys famous code-breaking agency.In July, Britains National Cyber Security Center for the first time said publicly that questions about Huaweis current practices and the complexity and dynamism of the new 5G networks meant it would be difficult to find vulnerabilities.At roughly the same time, the N.S.A., at a series of classified meetings with telecommunications executives, had to decide whether to let Huawei bid for parts of the American 5G networks. AT&T and Verizon argued there was value in letting Huawei set up a test bed in the United States since it would have to reveal the source code for its networking software. Allowing Huawei to bid would also drive the price of building the networks down, they argued.The director of the N.S.A. at the time, Adm. Michael S. Rogers, never approved the move and Huawei was blocked.In July 2018, with these decisions swirling, Britain, the United States and other members of the Five Eyes intelligence-sharing alliance met for their annual meeting in Halifax, Nova Scotia, where Chinese telecommunications companies, Huawei and 5G networks were at the top of the agenda. They decided on joint action to try to block the company from building new networks in the West.American officials are trying to make clear with allies around the world that the war with China is not just about trade but a battle to protect the national security of the worlds leading democracies and key NATO members.On Tuesday, the heads of American intelligence agencies will appear before the Senate to deliver their annual threat assessment, and they are expected to cite 5G investments by Chinese telecom companies, including Huawei, as a threat.In Poland, the message has quietly been delivered that countries that use Chinese telecommunications networks would be unsafe for American troops, according to people familiar with the internal discussions.That has gotten Polands attention, given that its president, Andrzej Duda, visited the White House in September and presented a plan to build a $2 billion base and training area, which Mr. Duda only half-jokingly called Fort Trump.Col. Grzegorz Malecki, now retired, who was the head of the Foreign Intelligence Agency in Poland, said it was understandable that the United States would want to avoid potentially compromising its troops.And control over the 5G network is such a potentially dangerous tool, said Mr. Malecki, now board president of the Institute of Security and Strategy. From Polands perspective, securing this troop presence outweighs all other concerns.Adam Satariano, Joanna Berendt and Katie Benner contributed reporting.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe presidents move has already been challenged in court. Win or lose, he is almost certainly forcing an alarming judicial precedent.By Robert ChesneyMr. Chesney is a law professor at the University of Texas at Austin.It didnt take long for a group of Texas landowners to challenge President Trumps declaration of a national emergency in court.More suits have followed 16 states, including New York and California, have sued to stop Mr. Trumps use of emergency powers to build a border wall  and the president himself predicted that the matter would end up in the Supreme Court. Whether the president wins or loses, though, there is a serious risk that the final result will be a dangerous judicial precedent.The Texans and others who face the loss of land because of eminent domain actions funded via Mr. Trumps emergency declaration have standing to sue and good cause to do so. Not because the government may offer them too little money to constitute just compensation, though past practice suggests this will be an issue, too. Rather, they object to the process that the president has used to gain the funding after Congress largely denied it to him.As an initial matter, they argue that there is no real emergency here as required by the National Emergencies Act. Second, and more significant, they contend that even if there is an emergency, it is not one that requires the use of the armed forces  which is the critical condition in the budget statute that the president unlocked by issuing his emergency declaration. In other words, if theres no military necessity, then theres no emergency authority to redirect military construction dollars toward a border wall.Even if there is military necessity, moreover, those dollars cant be spent on just anything. The statute defines military construction precisely and narrowly. You can pay to build things on military property, yes, but not on other government (let alone private) property. And you can pay to buy land, but only in order to make that land military property (not other government property).As Texans and other landowners argue that these conditions are not met, they have plenty of ammunition from the presidents own lips  including from his news conference last week, during which he emphasized that he did not need to take this step but simply wanted to for the sake of speed.As a result of all this, we are on the verge of intense litigation over a subtle but critical point: Can judges second-guess a presidents determination that there is an emergency under the National Emergencies Act? Even if not, can they at least second-guess the determination that the situation requires the use of the armed forces as required by the budget statute?This is where the risk of a problematic precedent arises. It could take either of two opposite forms. On one hand, the courts may give too much deference to the executive branch, taking a valuable tradition and distending it to cover disingenuous claims by the president  encouraging more of the same, and worse, in the future. On the other hand, the courts also might err in the opposite direction, throwing the baby out with the bath water in the course of second-guessing the president in this extreme instance, resulting in a temptation of courts to second-guess in less-justified circumstances.The deference tradition has deep roots. Courts have long given special weight to presidential judgments about matters that blend factual and policy judgment concerning national security and military needs. We saw the influence of that principle in the Trump administrations eventual victory in the travel ban litigation, but the tradition runs far deeper than that.One danger in the current litigation is that this tradition will be applied in a reckless way. In the worst case, the litigation might produce a Supreme Court holding articulating and entrenching a deference-on-steroids version of this concept. This would have extraordinary spillover effects, gutting the chances of effective litigation checks not just here but in many other settings down the line. The decision would lie about like the proverbial loaded weapon, tempting future presidents to similar (or worse) pretextual claims. Supporters of President Trump would be most unhappy to find a President Beto ORourke or Kamala Harris reaping the benefits of it in the coming years.And then there is the opposite risk, with the pendulum swinging so far away from deference as to gut the doctrine going forward. A ruling against the president need not produce such a result, to be sure. Mr. Trumps declaration normally would prompt deference, yes, but in his signature way he has offered ample grounds for a court to find unique reasons to rule against him. During his emergency announcement, after all, he could not resist admitting: I could do the wall over a longer period of time. I didnt need to do this. But Id rather do it much faster. Theres more where that came from, and a judge ruling against the president will not need to erode the deference tradition more broadly.If handled carefully enough, it should be possible for a court to describe this as an exceptionally rare instance in which deference fails  the proverbial exception proving the rule.But the more alarming aspects of this scenario, and the larger climate of distrust Mr. Trump has brought on himself, could lead to a holding that guts the idea of deference more broadly. This, too, would be dangerous.The deference tradition exists for good reason. The executive branch as a whole possesses access to information, expertise and experience that are critical for sound policymaking, and to at least some extent our legal system allocates responsibility for military and national security judgments to it. It may be that this is an outlier situation in which the boundaries of wise deference have been met and exceeded, with the presidents candor undoing his own legal case. But a reckless anti-deference decision, sweeping broadly beyond the narrow facts of this unusual case, would lie about like a loaded weapon just as much as an unduly deferential ruling. Its just that, in this case, its effect would encourage future judges to too-readily abandon normally desirable constraints on their role.They say bad facts make bad law, and whichever court gets the last word in this instance had best bear that in mind. If in the end there is an anti-deference ruling, lets hope that it is specific to the unusual facts of this case, with pains taken to protect the general rule. And if in the end the courts instead defer, lets hope they have some way to reassure us all that this does not open the door to further abuses.We knew the president was launching down a risky and unpredictable path. It turns out he is taking the courts with him.Robert Chesney (@bobbychesney) is a law professor at the University of Texas at Austin and a co-founder of Lawfare. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byIts everywhere, and were fighting against the wrong one.By Atossa Araxia AbrahamianMs. Abrahamian is the author of The Cosmopolites: The Coming of the Global Citizen.President Trump wants $5.7 billion to build a wall at the southern border of the United States. Nancy Pelosi thinks a wall is immoral. The fight over these slats or barriers or bricks shut down the government for more than a month and may do so again if Mr. Trump isnt satisfied with the way negotiations unfold over the next three weeks.But lets be clear: This is a disagreement about symbolism, not policy. Liberals object less to aggressive border security than to the walls xenophobic imagery, while the administration openly revels in its political incorrectness. And when this particular episode is over, well still have been fighting about the wrong thing. Its true that immigrants will keep trying to cross into the United States and that global migration will almost certainly increase in the coming years as climate change makes parts of the planet uninhabitable. But technology and globalization are complicating the idea of what a border is and where it stands.Not long from now, it wont make sense to think of the border as a line, a wall or even any kind of imposing vertical structure. Tearing down, or refusing to fund, border walls wont get anyone very far in the broader pursuit of global justice. The borders of the future wont be as easy to spot, build or demolish as the wall that Mr. Trump is proposing. Thats because they arent just going up around countries  theyre going up around us. And theyre taking away our freedom.In The Jungle, a play about a refugee camp in Calais, France, a Kurdish smuggler named Ali explains that his profession is not responsible for the large numbers of migrants making the dangerous journeys to Europe by sea. Once, I was the only way a man could ever dream of arriving on your shore, the smuggler says. But today, migrants can plan out the journeys using their phones. It is not about this border. Its the border in here, Ali says, pointing to his head  and that is gone, now.President Trump is obsessed with his border wall because technology has freed us from the walls in our heads.For people with means and passports, its easy to plot exotic itineraries in a flash and book flights with just a glance at a screen. Social feeds are an endless stream of old faces in new places: a carefree colleague feeding elephants in Thailand; a smug college classmate on a babymoon in Tahiti; that awful ex hanging off a cliff in Switzerland; a friends parents enjoying retirement in New Zealand.Likewise, a young person in Sana, Yemen, or Guatemala City might see a sister in Toronto, a neighbor in Phoenix, an aunt in London or a teacher in Berlin, and think that he, too, could start anew. Foreign places are real. Another country is possible.If you zoom out enough in Google Earth, youll see the lines between nations begin to disappear. Eventually, youll be left staring at a unified blue planet. You might even experience a hint of what astronauts have called the overview effect: the sense that we are all on Spaceship Earth, together. From space I saw Earth  indescribably beautiful with the scars of national boundaries gone, recalled Muhammed Faris, a Syrian astronaut, after his 1987 mission to space. In 2012, Mr. Faris fled war-torn Syria for Turkey.Ones freedom of movement used to be largely determined by ones citizenship, national origin and finances. Thats still the case  but increasingly, people are being categorized not just by the color of their passports or their ability to pay for tickets but also by where theyve been and what theyve said in the past.This is what is happening on that front already:A 2017 executive order barred people from seven countries, including five with Muslim majorities, from entering the country. An older rule put in place during the Obama administration compelled anyone whod even just visited seven blacklisted nations to obtain additional clearance before traveling to the United States. Even as the Trump administrations policy has met with legal challenges, it means that the barrier to entering the United States, for many, begins with their data and passport stamps, and is thousands of miles away from this country. The Trump administration would also like to make it harder for immigrants whove received public assistance to obtain citizenship or permanent residence by redefining what it means to be a public charge. If the administration succeeds, it will have moved the border into immigrants living rooms, schools and hospital beds.The walls of the future go beyond one administrations policies, though. They are growing up all around us, being built by global technology companies that allow for constant surveillance, data harvesting and the alarming collection of biometric information. In 2017, the United States announced it would be storing the social media profiles of immigrants in their permanent file, ostensibly to prevent Twitter-happy terrorists from slipping in. For years, Customs and Border Protection agents have asked travelers about their social media, too.The Electronic Frontier Foundation has said these practices can chill and deter the free speech and association of immigrants to the United States, as well as the U.S. persons who communicate with them. In other words, its no longer enough to have been born in the right place, at the right time, to the right parents. The trail of bread crumbs you leave could limit your movements.Its possible to get a glimpse of where a digital border might lead from China. Look at its continuing experiment with social-credit scoring, where a slip of the tongue or an unpaid debt could one day jeopardize someones ability to board a train or apply for a job. When your keystrokes and text messages become embedded in your legal identity, you create a wall around yourself without meaning to.The Berkeley political theorist Wendy Brown diagnoses the tendency to throw up walls as a classic symptom of a nation-states looming impotence in the face of globalization  the flashy sports car of what she calls a waning sovereignty. In a recent interview for The Nation, Professor Brown told me that walls fulfill a desire for greater sovereign control in times when the concept of bounded territory itself is in crisis. They are signifiers of a loss of a national we and national control  all the things weve seen erupt in a huge way. Walls are a response to deep existential anxiety, and even if the walls come down, or fail to be built in brick and stone, the world will guarantee us little in the way of freedom, fairness or equality. It makes more sense to think of modern borders as overlapping and concentric circles that change size, shape and texture depending on who  or what  is trying to pass through.Its far too easy to imagine a situation where our freedom of movement still depends entirely on what has happened to us in the past and what kind of information were willing to give up in return. Consider the expedited screening process of the Global Entry Program for traveling to the United States. Its a shortcut  reserved for people who can get it  that doesnt do away with borders. It just makes them easier to cross, and therefore less visible.That serves the modern nation-state very well. Because in the end, what are borders supposed to protect us from? The answer used to be other states, empires or sovereigns. But today, relatively few land borders exist to physically fend off a neighboring power, and countries even cooperate to police the borders they share. Modern borders exist to control something else: the movement of people. They control us.Those are the walls we should be fighting over.Atossa Araxia Abrahamian (@atossaaraxia) is the author of The Cosmopolites: The Coming of the Global Citizen and an editor at The Nation.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Mujib MashalKABUL, Afghanistan  The Talibans deputy leader, Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, arrived in Qatar on Sunday, officials said, for what could be the highest-level negotiations yet between the insurgents and American diplomats on ending the long Afghan war.The next round of talks, scheduled to begin on Monday in Doha, the Qatari capital, is expected to focus on the details of a framework deal that the two sides reached in principle last month. Under that framework, American troops would withdraw from Afghanistan in return for a Taliban guarantee that Afghan territory would never be used by terrorists.The talks have so far excluded the Afghan government. American officials have said that any final agreement would require the insurgents to meet with Afghan officials and to declare a cease-fire to ease the burden of a war that is taking lives in record numbers.Visiting Kabul, Zalmay Khalilzad, the special envoy leading the American delegation, said he would be pushing the insurgents to agree to the steps with the Afghan side, a process complicated by deep divisions among the countrys government and the political elite.[Read about the three Afghan scholarship students from the 1970s who are now at the center of peace talks.]Mullah Baradars travel to Doha from Pakistan, where he had been detained for years, was confirmed by a Western official who is closely following the peace developments but who requested anonymity, as he was not authorized to speak to the news media.Sayid Akbar Agha, a former Taliban official who still has contacts with the group, also confirmed the move, saying, Mullah Baradar reached Doha an hour ago, and he will take part in peace talks with Khalilzad.Kai Eide, a former United Nations envoy to Afghanistan who was involved in some of the earliest peace contacts with the Taliban, said Mullah Baradars arrival to join the Talibans negotiators based in Doha was an encouraging sign that the insurgencys top leadership was directly engaging in talks.Baradars participation certainly means that the Doha team will become more of a decision-making body than before, Mr. Eide said. From my own experience 10 years ago, I believe that he was already, before his arrest, the most prominent Taliban leader in favor of finding a political settlement.Mullah Baradar, one of the Talibans founding leaders, was instrumental in their regrouping as a strong insurgency after the United States toppled their regime in 2001. Around eight years later, he made contacts with the Afghan government at the time, drawing the ire of the Pakistani military, which has been supporting the Taliban as a proxy force and giving its leadership sanctuary.The mullah was arrested in a joint operation of Pakistani and American agents, at a time when the United States military was still pursuing a victory on the battlefield and had not embraced a political resolution to the war.Mullah Baradar was released from Pakistani custody in October at the request of the American government, which hoped he could help end a war the Trump administration desperately wants behind it. But his delay in arriving in Doha repeatedly raised doubts about how free he actually was  with Afghan officials and some Taliban sources suggesting Pakistan was still closely watching him.Mullah Baradars arrival for peace talks gives the Americans a senior interlocutor who can finalize a deal and then use his weight with the Talibans rank and file to put it in place. Even so, moving the peace talks to the next stage, with Afghan government involvement, still seems daunting.The Taliban have refused to meet with the Afghan government, while President Ashraf Ghani has insisted that the peace talks will not go anywhere unless the insurgents formally sit with his administration.A large group of Afghan politicians, led by former President Hamid Karzai, met with the Taliban in Moscow this month in what they hoped could be an icebreaker for broader talks between the groups. But officials in the Ghani government heavily criticized the move, saying it undermined the fragile Afghan state at a critical time.The government and the opposition have also vehemently disagreed over the makeup of a negotiating team for when the Taliban do agree to formal talks with Afghan officials. Mr. Ghanis choice  a group of negotiators that would include several government ministers and be led by his chief of staff  was denounced as unrepresentative by the opposition. Mr. Khalilzad, the American envoy, has also said the government would have to make its team inclusive for negotiations to move forward.Mr. Ghani has called for a loya jirga, a grand consultative meeting of about 2,000 representatives from across Afghanistan, next month to define the parameters for talks with the Taliban. Officials hope the meeting could bridge the gap between the positions of the government and the opposition, building consensus for a united peace effort.Mr. Eide, the former United Nations official, said Afghanistans political establishment needed to unite around the unique opening for peace, or the current momentum could collapse.If that happens, it may take a long time before another attempt could be made to find a political settlement, Mr. Eide said.Fahim Abed contributed reporting from Kabul, and Taimoor Shah from Kandahar.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Robert PearWASHINGTON  The Trump administration is moving ahead with its proposal to require drug companies to disclose the often sky-high prices of their products in television commercials, despite strenuous objections and the threat of legal challenges by drug makers and TV broadcasters.The White House is reviewing the text of a final rule to impose the requirement, contending that the disclosures will provide manufacturers with an incentive to reduce their list prices by exposing overly costly drugs to public scrutiny.President Trump has rolled back dozens of Obama-era regulations affecting financial services, energy and the environment. But he has been willing to impose new rules to rein in what he describes as outrageously high drug prices, and administration officials say these efforts will be politically popular.In a poll last month by the Kaiser Family Foundation, nearly nine in 10 Americans said they supported requiring drug companies to include list prices in their advertisements. Democrats and Republicans were equally likely to favor it.Mr. Trump vowed in the Rose Garden of the White House last May that he would bring soaring drug prices back down to earth. He said this past week that prescription drug prices have come down for the first time in 51 years, crediting Alex M. Azar II, the secretary of health and human services, for the development.The administration wants drug makers to disclose the list prices of drugs in television advertisements, and in many ads, the sticker shock could be considerable. Two dosing pens of Humira, AbbVies heavily advertised rheumatoid arthritis and chronic plaque psoriasis medication, have an average retail price of $5,684, according to the website GoodRx, which tracks drug prices. Xeljanz, a Pfizer arthritis medication in heavy television rotation, costs about $80 a pill. Cosentyx, a Novartis medication for psoriasis, has a list price that amounts to $67,325 a year, the company said.Drug companies say such information would be misleading in an advertisement because most consumers pay less than the list price, and they are lobbying the White House in an effort to kill or delay the rule. Officials could not say how long the White House review would take or when the final rule would be in place.Requiring list price disclosures could result in increased consumer confusion and may potentially deter patients from seeking care, Robert W. Jones, a senior vice president for United States government relations at Pfizer, said in a recent letter to Seema Verma, the administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.Eli Lilly, the pharmaceutical company where Mr. Azar was once a top executive, said, Many patients may incorrectly surmise that they are required to pay the full list price, rather than a co-pay or coinsurance.Drug makers spent nearly $4.5 billion on television advertising of prescription drugs last year, according to Kantar Media, an ad tracking company.Even some people who desperately want lower drug prices question how effective the disclosure requirement would be.David Mitchell, the founder of Patients for Affordable Drugs, a nonprofit advocacy group, said that the disclosure of list prices in TV ads could be helpful to patients, but he added: We have not seen any evidence that it will lower drug prices. We do not believe drug companies will be shamed by public displays of prices. Mr. Mitchell has a blood cancer called multiple myeloma.Carl E. Schmid II, the deputy executive director of the AIDS Institute, a public policy and advocacy organization, said: The list price is an inflated price and does not represent what the patient pays, nor for that matter, what the pharmaceutical company receives. In and of itself, it is not a useful figure for patients. What they need to know is how much a drug will actually cost them at the time of sale.When the Trump administration proposed the price-disclosure requirement last fall, Mr. Azar called it a historic action to reduce drug prices by providing consumers with more information.But in the fine print of the proposed rule, the Department of Health and Human Services made some notable concessions. It acknowledged that Congress has not explicitly provided H.H.S. with authority to compel the disclosure of list prices to the public.In addition, while extolling the benefits of price transparency, the department said that consumers, intimidated and confused by high list prices, may be deterred from contacting their physicians about drugs or medical conditions. This, in turn, could discourage patients from using beneficial medications and potentially increase the total cost of care, the department said in a preamble to its proposed rule.Two powerful lobbies, the National Association of Broadcasters and the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, contend that the disclosure requirement would be a form of compelled speech in violation of the First Amendment. Their comments on the proposed rule provide a road map for possible lawsuits challenging the mandate.The required disclosure of list prices has no rational connection to the governments stated goal of reducing drug prices paid by Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries, said Rick Kaplan, an executive vice president of the broadcasters association.James C. Stansel, the top lawyer at the drug makers lobby known as PhRMA, said there were other, much less intrusive ways to make cost information available to patients. For example, he said, Congress could authorize the Medicare agency to disclose list-price data itself, along with cost-sharing information for beneficiaries, on a government-sponsored website.When the White House issued a blueprint to lower drug prices with several dozen ideas last year, it directed the Food and Drug Administration to consider requiring drug makers to include list prices in advertising. The agency has clear legal authority to regulate drug ads, but it is not issuing the new rule. Rather, it was drafted by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.The Trump administration says this is justified because the agency that runs Medicare and Medicaid is the single largest drug payer in the nation.But its authority is sure to be challenged. Federal law delegates regulatory power over prescription drug advertising to F.D.A., not C.M.S., Mr. Stansel said. Both agencies are part of the Health and Human Services Department.The drug industry is poised to roll out an alternative to Mr. Trumps plan. PhRMA companies say they will voluntarily include information in TV ads directing viewers to company websites that provide data on list prices, typical out-of-pocket costs and sources of financial assistance for patients who need it. With many drugs now costing more than $50,000 a year, many people do need assistance.Johnson & Johnson is going further. It plans to disclose the list prices of its prescription drugs, as well as potential out-of-pocket costs, in television ads. It will start in the next couple of weeks with its most widely prescribed medicine, Xarelto, a blood thinner, which has a list price of $448 a month.The administration plan to require disclosure of drug prices is supported by the American Medical Association, the American Hospital Association, Americas Health Insurance Plans and the Blue Cross Blue Shield Association, as well as by Senator Charles E. Grassley, the Iowa Republican who is the chairman of the Finance Committee, and Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the No. 2 Senate Democrat.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Julian E. Barnes and Helene CooperWASHINGTON  There are few things that President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia desires more than the weakening of NATO, the military alliance among the United States, Europe and Canada that has deterred Soviet and Russian aggression for 70 years.Last year, President Trump suggested a move tantamount to destroying NATO: the withdrawal of the United States.Senior administration officials told The New York Times that several times over the course of 2018, Mr. Trump privately said he wanted to withdraw from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Current and former officials who support the alliance said they feared Mr. Trump could return to his threat as allied military spending continued to lag behind the goals the president had set.In the days around a tumultuous NATO summit meeting last summer, they said, Mr. Trump told his top national security officials that he did not see the point of the military alliance, which he presented as a drain on the United States.At the time, Mr. Trumps national security team, including Jim Mattis, then the defense secretary, and John R. Bolton, the national security adviser, scrambled to keep American strategy on track without mention of a withdrawal that would drastically reduce Washingtons influence in Europe and could embolden Russia for decades.Now, the presidents repeatedly stated desire to withdraw from NATO is raising new worries among national security officials amid growing concern about Mr. Trumps efforts to keep his meetings with Mr. Putin secret from even his own aides, and an F.B.I. investigation into the administrations Russia ties.A move to withdraw from the alliance, in place since 1949, would be one of the most damaging things that any president could do to U.S. interests, said Michle A. Flournoy, an under secretary of defense under President Barack Obama.It would destroy 70-plus years of painstaking work across multiple administrations, Republican and Democratic, to create perhaps the most powerful and advantageous alliance in history, Ms. Flournoy said in an interview. And it would be the wildest success that Vladimir Putin could dream of.Retired Adm. James G. Stavridis, the former supreme allied commander of NATO, said an American withdrawal from the alliance would be a geopolitical mistake of epic proportion.Even discussing the idea of leaving NATO  let alone actually doing so  would be the gift of the century for Putin, Admiral Stavridis said.Senior Trump administration officials discussed the internal and highly sensitive efforts to preserve the military alliance on condition of anonymity.After the White House was asked for comment on Monday, a senior administration official pointed to Mr. Trumps remarks in July when he called the United States commitment to NATO very strong and the alliance very important. The official declined to comment further.American national security officials believe that Russia has largely focused on undermining solidarity between the United States and Europe after it annexed Crimea in 2014. Its goal was to upend NATO, which Moscow views as a threat.Russias meddling in American elections and its efforts to prevent former satellite states from joining the alliance have aimed to weaken what it views as an enemy next door, the American officials said. With a weakened NATO, they said, Mr. Putin would have more freedom to behave as he wishes, setting up Russia as a counterweight to Europe and the United States.An American withdrawal from the alliance would accomplish all that Mr. Putin has been trying to put into motion, the officials said  essentially, doing the Russian leaders hardest and most critical work for him.When Mr. Trump first raised the possibility of leaving the alliance, senior administration officials were unsure if he was serious. He has returned to the idea several times, officials said increasing their worries.Mr. Trumps dislike of alliances abroad and American commitments to international organizations is no secret.The president has repeatedly and publicly challenged or withdrawn from a number of military and economic partnerships, from the Paris climate accord to an Asia-Pacific trade pact. He has questioned the United States military alliance with South Korea and Japan, and he has announced a withdrawal of American troops from Syria without first consulting allies in the American-led coalition to defeat the Islamic State.NATO had planned to hold a leaders meeting in Washington to mark its 70th anniversary in April, akin to the 50-year celebration that was hosted by President Bill Clinton in 1999. But this years meeting has been downgraded to a foreign ministers gathering, as some diplomats feared that Mr. Trump could use a Washington summit meeting to renew his attacks on the alliance.Leaders are now scheduled to meet at the end of 2019, but not in Washington.Mr. Trumps threats to withdraw had sent officials scrambling to prevent the annual gathering of NATO leaders in Brussels last July from turning into a disaster.Senior national security officials had already pushed the military alliances ambassadors to complete a formal agreement on several NATO goals  including shared defenses against Russia  before the summit meeting even began, to shield it from Mr. Trump.But Mr. Trump upended the proceedings anyway. One meeting, on July 12, was ostensibly supposed to be about Ukraine and Georgia  two non-NATO members with aspirations to join the alliance.Accepted protocol dictates that alliance members do not discuss internal business in front of nonmembers. But as is frequently the case, Mr. Trump did not adhere to the established norms, according to several American and European officials who were in the room.He complained that European governments were not spending enough on the shared costs of defense, leaving the United States to carry an outsize burden. He expressed frustration that European leaders would not, on the spot, pledge to spend more. And he appeared not to grasp the details when several tried to explain to him that spending levels were set by parliaments in individual countries, the American and European officials said.Then, at another leaders gathering at the same summit meeting, Mr. Trump appeared to be taken by surprise by Jens Stoltenberg, the NATO secretary general.Backing Mr. Trumps position, Mr. Stoltenberg pushed allies to increase their spending and praised the United States for leading by example  including by increasing its military spending in Europe. At that, according to one official who was in the room, Mr. Trump whipped his head around and glared at American officials behind him, surprised by Mr. Stoltenbergs remarks and betraying ignorance of his administrations own spending plans.Mr. Trump appeared especially annoyed, officials in the meeting said, with Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany and her countrys military spending of 1 percent of its gross domestic product.By comparison, the United States military spending is about 4 percent of G.D.P., and Mr. Trump has railed against allies for not meeting the NATO spending goal of 2 percent of economic output. At the summit meeting, he surprised the leaders by demanding 4 percent  a move that would essentially put the goal out of reach for many alliance members. He also threatened that the United States would go its own way in 2019 if military spending from other NATO countries did not rise.During the middle of a speech by Ms. Merkel, Mr. Trump again broke protocol by getting up and leaving, sending ripples of shock across the room, according to American and European officials who were there. But before he left, the president walked behind Ms. Merkel and interrupted her speech to call her a great leader. Startled and relieved that Mr. Trump had not continued his berating of the leaders, the people in the room clapped.In the end, the NATO leaders publicly papered over their differences to present a unified front. But both European leaders and American officials emerged from the two days in Brussels shaken and worried that Mr. Trump would renew his threat to withdraw from the alliance.Mr. Trumps skepticism of NATO appears to be a core belief, administration officials said, akin to his desire to expropriate Iraqs oil. While officials have explained multiple times why the United States cannot take Iraqs oil, Mr. Trump returns to the issue every few months.Similarly, just when officials think the issue of NATO membership has been settled, Mr. Trump again brings up his desire to leave the alliance.Any move by Mr. Trump against NATO would most likely invite a response by Congress. American policy toward Russia is the one area where congressional Republicans have consistently bucked Mr. Trump, including with new sanctions on Moscow and by criticizing his warm July 16 news conference with Mr. Putin in Helsinki, Finland.Members of NATO may withdraw after a notification period of a year, under Article 13 of the Washington Treaty. Such a delay would give Congress time to try blocking any attempt by Mr. Trump to leave.Its alarming that the president continues to falsely assert that NATO does not contribute to the overall safety of the United States or the international community, said Senator Jeanne Shaheen, a New Hampshire Democrat who is among the lawmakers who support legislation to stop Mr. Trump from withdrawing from the military alliance. The Senate knows better and stands ready to defend NATO.NATOs popularity with the public continues to be strong. But the alliance has become a more partisan issue, with Democrats showing strong enthusiasm and Republican support softening, according to a survey by the Ronald Reagan Institute.Kay Bailey Hutchison, Washingtons ambassador to NATO and a former Republican senator, has sought to build support for the alliance in Congress, including helping to organize a bipartisan group of backers.But even if Congress moved to block a withdrawal, a statement by Mr. Trump that he wanted to leave would greatly damage NATO. Allies feeling threatened by Russia already have extreme doubts about whether Mr. Trump would order troops to come to their aid.In his resignation letter last month, Mr. Mattis specifically cited his own commitment to Americas alliances in an implicit criticism of Mr. Trumps principles. Mr. Mattis originally said he would stay through the next NATO meeting at the end of February, but Mr. Trump pushed him out before the new year.Acting Defense Secretary Patrick M. Shanahan is believed to support the alliance. But he has also pointedly said he thinks that the Pentagon should not be the Department of No to the president.European and American officials said the presence of Mr. Mattis, a former top NATO commander, had reassured allies that a senior Trump administration official had their back. His exit from the Pentagon has increased worries among some European diplomats that the safety blanket has now been lost.Matthew Rosenberg contributed reporting.Follow Julian E. Barnes and Helene Cooper on Twitter: @julianbarnes and @helenecooper.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Kenneth P. VogelThe Trump administration on Sunday lifted sanctions against the business empire of Oleg V. Deripaska, one of Russias most influential oligarchs.Congressional Democrats had tried to block the move this month, assailing it as a capitulation to the Kremlin and a key ally of President Vladimir V. Putin. But they failed to win enough Republican support to enforce the sanctions.The Treasury Department had announced the sanctions against Mr. Deripaska, six other oligarchs and their companies in April as retaliation for Russias malign activity around the world.Most of the sanctions went into effect, including against Mr. Deripaska personally. But their implementation was repeatedly delayed against Mr. Deripaskas giant aluminum company, Rusal, as well as two linked firms, including EN+, the holding company that owned much of Rusal. The companies financed a sophisticated legal and lobbying campaign arguing that the sanctions would disrupt the aluminum market and damage companies in the United States and allied countries.Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, was sensitive to that argument. He clarified that the goal of the sanctions was to change the behavior of Mr. Deripaska, and not to put Rusal out of business, given the companys pivotal role as a global supplier of aluminum.The Treasury Department announced a deal last month to lift the sanctions in exchange for a restructuring that it said would reduce Mr. Deripaskas control and ownership of the companies.Yet a confidential, legally binding document detailing the agreement showed that Mr. Deripaska and his allies would retain majority ownership of EN+.Representative Lloyd Doggett, a Texas Democrat who has been among the leading critics of the deal, said that allowing it to take effect represents just one more step in undermining the sanctions law, which President Trump has obstructed at every opportunity, while Russian aggression remains unabated.But EN+ said in a statement that Sundays move was a victory for the U.S. sanctions policy, successfully punishing the target but not at the expense of shareholders, employees and the wider market.After the sanctions were officially lifted, EN+ announced the appointment of seven new directors under the deal, including Christopher Bancroft Burnham, a banker who served on Mr. Trumps State Department transition team and worked in George W. Bushs State Department.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Robert PearWASHINGTON  If youre on federal disability payments and on social media, be careful what you post. Uncle Sam wants to watch.The Trump administration has been quietly working on a proposal to use social media like Facebook and Twitter to help identify people who claim Social Security disability benefits without actually being disabled. If, for example, a person claimed benefits because of a back injury but was shown playing golf in a photograph posted on Facebook, that could be used as evidence that the injury was not disabling.There is a little bitty chance that Social Security may be snooping on your Facebook or your Twitter account, Robert A. Crowe, a lawyer from St. Louis who has represented Social Security disability claimants for more than 40 years, said he cautioned new clients. You dont want anything on there that shows you out playing Frisbee.In its budget request to Congress last year, Social Security said it would study whether to expand the use of social media networks in disability determinations as a way to increase program integrity and expedite the identification of fraud.Since then, administration officials said, the White House has been actively working with Social Security to flesh out the proposal, in the belief that social media could be a treasure trove of information about people who are applying for or receiving disability benefits.Some members of Congress, like Senator James Lankford, Republican of Oklahoma, and some conservative organizations, like the Heritage Foundation in Washington, have supported the idea as part of a broader effort to prevent the payment of disability benefits to people who are able to work.But advocates for people with disabilities say the use of social media in this way would be dangerous because photos posted there do not always provide reliable evidence of a persons current condition.It may be difficult to tell when a photograph was taken, said Lisa D. Ekman, a lawyer who is the chairwoman of the Consortium for Citizens with Disabilities, a coalition of advocacy groups. Just because someone posted a photograph of them golfing or going fishing in February of 2019 does not mean that the activity occurred in 2019.Moreover, people are more likely to post pictures of themselves when they are happy and healthy than when they are in a wheelchair or a hospital bed.More than 10 million people receive Social Security disability insurance benefits totaling more than $11 billion a month. Beneficiaries have paid into the system through payroll taxes.President Trump is expected to detail several proposals to combat fraud in the program in his 2020 budget, to be issued on Monday.Before he was an official presidential candidate, Mr. Trump said he would not cut Social Security.When he announced his candidacy in June 2015, Mr. Trump maintained that position: Save Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security without cuts. Have to do it. Get rid of the fraud. Get rid of the waste and abuse, but save it.But his budgets in the last two years have proposed reductions in the disability insurance program, which has been part of Social Security since 1956.The presidents budget director, Mick Mulvaney, who is now also the acting White House chief of staff, has suggested that Mr. Trumps campaign commitment does not cover disability benefits.Do you really think that Social Security disability insurance is part of what people think of when they think of Social Security? Mr. Mulvaney asked on CBSs Face the Nation in 2017. I dont think so. Its the fastest growing program. It was  it grew tremendously under President Obama. Its a very wasteful program, and we want to try and fix that.Brian C. Blase, a special assistant to the president for economic policy, has been coordinating development of the new proposals on Social Security. In 2014, Mr. Blase provided the staff work for a subcommittee investigation of the disability program led by Mr. Lankford, who was then a member of the House. Soon after he got to the Senate, Mr. Lankford proposed legislation to expand the use of evidence obtained from publicly available social media.At present, disability examiners do not routinely look at social media. They can refer suspicious cases to the inspector general for Social Security, who may use social media to corroborate information from other sources in fraud investigations conducted with state and local law enforcement agencies.The Trump administration contends that it could authorize greater use of social media by regulation, without action by Congress. Under pressure from the White House, Social Security has drafted a timeline that envisions publication of a final rule in the spring of 2020.Michael J. Astrue, the last Senate-confirmed Social Security commissioner, has expressed misgivings about the idea.Social media sites are not exactly clear and reliable evidence, Mr. Astrue, who stepped down six years ago, said at a Senate hearing in 2012. Facebook puts up phony websites under my name all the time.That, he said, is why you need professionally trained fraud investigators to evaluate the information.Few would say that the Social Security disability program was free of fraud. The government has secured guilty pleas from a number of people who concealed the fact that they were working in various industries while drawing Social Security disability benefits.In one case, a 57-year-old Louisiana man pleaded guilty last month to theft of government funds. He had received $2,177 a month in benefits  a total of $242,000  while employed by companies that did demolition work and job site cleaning. He also operated heavy construction equipment. He told federal investigators that the companies had been registered in the names of family members, rather than his own name, so yall wouldnt find out about it, according to court records.In its latest financial report, Social Security estimated that it made $3.4 billion in overpayments to disability insurance beneficiaries in 2017, in part because of their failure to report work activities.The program has been riddled with problems, including fraud and abuse, said Rachel Greszler, a research fellow at the Heritage Foundation. When people who can work collect benefits, she said, it drains the system for those who truly cannot work and support themselves.The administrations focus on fraud comes as the number of Americans seeking Social Security disability benefits is plunging. The number of applications was down 29 percent last year from a peak of 2.9 million in 2010.A growing economy with strong demand for workers is one reason for the decline, officials say. In addition, they speculate that with new technology and the potential for teleworking, it is possible for some people to take jobs even though they have medical conditions that would have precluded work in the past.Social Security officials are considering other changes that could make it more difficult for people to qualify for benefits.They are working with the White House to overhaul the way Social Security weighs various vocational factors  age, education and job experience  in deciding whether a person is able to work.In November, Social Security proposed a new rule that would strip applicants and beneficiaries of their right to an in-person hearing before an administrative law judge, after some judges came under scrutiny for leniency in allowing disability claims. In 2017, a former administrative law judge for the Social Security Administration pleaded guilty for his role in a scheme to fraudulently obtain more than $550 million in federal disability payments for thousands of claimants.Under the November proposal, Social Security could hold the hearings by video conference even if a claimant objected. With video conferencing, the agency said, it could improve service to the public and reduce wait times. At present, it said, nearly 860,000 people are waiting an average of 19 months for hearings to appeal the denial or termination of benefits.But top Democrats responsible for Social Security policy in Congress denounced the proposal in a letter to the acting Social Security commissioner, Nancy A. Berryhill.This change would deprive millions of Americans of their constitutional right to due process and result in hearings which are less fair and less efficient, said the letter, signed by Representative Richard E. Neal of Massachusetts, the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, and Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon, the senior Democrat on the Finance Committee, among others.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byDo lawbreaking, lying to the public and colluding with a foreign enemy add up to innocence?By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of David Leonhardts newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday.Yes, I know youve heard this before, but many observers think its finally true: The Mueller report seems to be coming soon. I want to step back this morning and review what Roberts Mueller investigation (and others) have already uncovered.The brief version: So far, there is no clear evidence that the Trump campaign and Russian officials worked together to coordinate campaign strategy. Trump and his defenders have tried to conflate this with innocence. The presidents mantra is No collusion.[Listen to The Argument podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]But thats both wrong and a brazen lowering of the bar for presidential behavior. Even without any further findings, the Mueller investigation shows that Trump has repeatedly violated his oath of office by lying to the American people, breaking the law, putting his personal interests above the countrys and secretly working with a hostile foreign country. The details:Russia interfered in the 2016 election to help Trump. Russian officials hacked the emails of Democratic officials and created a social media campaign designed to hurt Hillary Clinton and help Trump.Trump campaign officials knew of these foreign efforts and encouraged them. The presidents son did so. As did George Papadopoulos, a campaign adviser. And Trump himself publicly urged Russia to hack Clintons emails  on the same day Russian hackers tried to breach her private server for the first time.Trump campaign officials attempted to conceal contacts they had with Russians and other foreign officials. Trump and his associates repeatedly lied to the public and to investigators about their more than 100 contacts  including meetings, phone calls and emails  with Russians during the campaign. Among the examples: Michael Flynn, a campaign aide who became Trumps national security adviser, lied about phone calls he had with the Russian ambassador to the United States.Campaign officials knew in advance about the WikiLeaks email dumps. Before WikiLeaks released stolen Democratic emails, Roger Stone, a longtime Trump associate, told campaign officials it would happen.Trump was secretly pursuing a business venture in Russia and lied about it. During most of the 2016 campaign, Trump associates worked to build a Trump Tower in Moscow, while publicly denying any such business relationship. Trumps former lawyer, Michael Cohen, lied to Congress about the talks and was sentenced to three years in prison.Trump directed a subordinate to break the law. During the campaign, Trump directed Cohen to pay hush money to women who claimed to have had affairs with Trump. The secret payments violated campaign finance laws.Trumps campaign was run by criminals. The Mueller investigation has also uncovered separate financial crimes committed by top campaign officials. Both Paul Manafort, the campaign chairman, and Rick Gates, a Manafort protg, have been indicted on conspiracy and fraud. Others tied to the campaign, including Papadopoulos, have also received prison sentences.For more:In a Times Op-Ed, James Comey, the former F.B.I. director, writes that he hopes the Mueller report shows that Trump did not hinder the investigation.My newsroom colleagues Larry Buchanan and Karen Yourish have put together a helpful guide to the people implicated in the investigation. FiveThirtyEights Amelia Thomson-DeVeaux and Perry Bacon Jr. note that Muellers court filings so far amount to a kind of public report.Neal Katyal, a legal expert, has also put together a helpful Twitter thread on the subject. Dont focus on the one-line spin. Focus on the facts, judgments, and limitations in the Mueller Report, he writes.The legal scholar Joyce White Vance notes that the end of the Mueller investigation doesnt necessarily mean the end of Trumps legal issues. Mueller appears to have stayed carefully within his lane, sending cases that strayed from his core mission to US attorneys & DOJ divisions, she tweeted. These career prosecutors will work their investigations to a conclusion, even after Mueller closes shop.And Aaron Blake of The Washington Post outlines what could happen to Muellers report once the attorney general has it.If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt  Facebook Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Dan LevinStella Blaylock has not been sleeping well since before Christmas, when her father was furloughed in the partial government shutdown and unexpectedly extended his holiday vacation. Days later, her mother was laid off from her job as a federal contractor.A sixth grader at Williamsburg Middle School in Arlington, Va.  a Washington, D.C., suburb home to thousands of government workers  Stella now worries whether her parents will be able to scrape together enough money for her braces, or whether a planned overnight camp in June will have to be deleted from the familys calendar.The shutdown makes me nervous, said Stella, 11, whose father, a foreign service officer, was furloughed for a week but is now working without pay.Now in its fourth week, the government impasse that has upended the daily lives of thousands of federal employees has also affected young people across America, from children who are agonizing alongside their parents over lost jobs and wages to college students unable to pay tuition or file financial aid forms.With the Internal Revenue Service closed, Cartonise Lawson-Wilson, a 20-year-old sophomore at the University of Michigan-Dearborn, has been unable to submit required paperwork for a grant that will pay her housing and tuition. Desperate for help while she awaits a resolution to the deadlock, she started a GoFundMe campaign, but has received only $15 of her $7,512 goal.I dont have a backup plan, she said.[Read: President Trump Rejects Proposal to Temporarily Reopen the Government]As President Trump and Congress remain at odds over the presidents demand for $5 billion to address what he calls a humanitarian crisis on the southern border, the protracted standoff has exacted an escalating financial and emotional toll on the 800,000 federal workers and the thousands of government contractors who have not been paid. And the effects of the stalemate, the longest in United States history, are cascading across generations, with little that breadwinners can do to hide the consequences from their children.The shutdown is like an acute recession, particularly for those living paycheck-to-paycheck, said Gustavo Carlo, an expert on child and adolescent development at the University of Missouri who has studied the effects of financial strain on families.The economic instability can lead to depression that hurts parent-child relationships, he said, adding, Its not good for these kids, its not good for these families.Children have tapped their entrepreneurial spirits to assist their parents. In Virginia, Stellas 9-year-old brother Tiger has picked up on the familys financial tension and has offered to sell his comic book drawings to help pay their mounting bills. And when Bella Berrellez found out that her mother had been furloughed from her job at the Food and Drug Administration, the fifth grader from North Potomac, Md., started making soap scrubs to bring in extra cash.The longer the federal government remains closed for business, more services are affected.My moms not getting paid so I thought about ways I could help, said Bella, 11, who has sold more than 300 jars of the $7 scrub to neighbors and online customers through the handicrafts website Etsy. Her father has not lost his job, so the family decided to donate the proceeds to a food bank to help others affected by the shutdown.[Read about how the shutdown has underscored how deeply the federal government is connected to everyday life.]Elsewhere in the Washington region, public schools have offered free or reduced-price lunches to students whose parents have been furloughed. The Alexandria, Va., school district received nearly 20 requests the day after the subsidized meal plan was offered last week, a spokeswoman said.The shutdown has become a teaching moment, too. In several high schools across the country, it has been used as a real-time lesson in governance and economics. Scott Zwierzchowski, a teacher at Lincoln Park High School in Chicago, last week split his Advanced Placement microeconomics classes into groups and asked students to study the shutdowns short- and long-term impacts on consumer spending, tourism and trade.Shortly after class ended, Shadi Naji, 17, shared his analysis. The costs definitely outweigh the benefits, he said.With the costs, financial and otherwise, climbing, Mr. Trump has warned that the shutdown could last for months or even years. Federal workers missed their first paychecks last week.The stress is just too much, said Lucy Ugochukwu, who said she got chest pains watching Mr. Trump deliver his televised address last week about the impasse. Furloughed from her job at the Treasury Department, she was unable to pay her sons spring tuition at Penn State Universitys Schuylkill campus. The university eventually granted David Ugochukwu, 19, a scholarship that will cover part of his balance, but she has struggled not knowing when her paychecks might resume.How can I set up a payment plan when I dont have income? she said, adding that a GoFundMe campaign she created to pay the outstanding debt is far shy of its goal.The sudden halt in income forced Keisha McKoy, a furloughed F.D.A. employee, to visit a local food pantry last week for the first time. She stood in line with other furloughed workers and their children. She said she was afraid she would not be able to afford next months $1,785 rent or pay her internet and credit card bills. One of her sons, James Williams, 19, who attends Prince Georges Community College, has applied for part-time jobs because, he said, any little bit helps.Trumps talking about a crisis on the border, but we have a crisis right here, said Ms. McKoy, whose home in Upper Marlboro, Md., was plunged into darkness earlier this month after she was unable to pay her electric bill. A single mother of five, Ms. McKoy told her two smaller children there was a power failure, but could not hide the truth from her older sons.They have to watch me cry, she said, and figure out how to feed them all.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Deborah B. SolomonWASHINGTON  President Trump said on Tuesday that he would consider delaying a March 2 deadline to reach a trade deal with China, saying the United States might not impose higher tariffs on Chinese goods if talks with Beijing were going well.If were close to a deal where we think we can make a real deal, I could see myself letting them slide for a little while, Mr. Trump said during remarks at the Oval Office.Mr. Trumps comments came as American officials were in Beijing for a week of talks with Chinese officials to try to resolve a trade war that has begun to inflict economic damage on both sides of the Pacific. The two countries are trying to work out significant differences ahead of the March 2 deadline, when, the United States has said, it will increase tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese goods to 25 percent from 10 percent.[One potentially big obstacle in the way of reaching a deal is how the United States punishes China if it doesnt meet its obligations.] Both Mr. Trump and his top trade negotiator, Robert Lighthizer, have previously said that the deadline is a firm date and that the United States will not extend the timeline, which Mr. Trump and President Xi Jinping of China agreed upon during a dinner in Buenos Aires last year.But with many of the biggest issues unresolved and the deadline drawing near, Mr. Trump appeared ready to give both sides more time to negotiate. And he again suggested that he and Mr. Xi may ultimately needed to iron out the remaining differences before a final deal was reached.At some point, I expect to meet with Xi and make the parts of the deal that the group is unable to make, Mr. Trump said.The president had originally suggested that such a meeting could take place ahead of the deadline but reversed course last week, saying he would not meet with Mr. Xi before March 2.A delegation of top American trade officials, including Mr. Lighthizer and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, arrived in Beijing this week to try to negotiate the outlines of a deal.Mr. Trump characterized those discussions as going well and said he thought the United States had a chance to make a real deal.He added that he wanted it to be a real deal, not just a deal that looks cosmetically good for a year.But steep challenges remain to striking an agreement that addresses the administrations primary concerns, including Chinas practice of forcing American companies to hand over valuable technology and restricting access to its market. Mr. Lighthizer, who briefed senators last week, told lawmakers that one of the biggest issues was ensuring that China followed through with whatever commitments it made. Senators told Mr. Lighthizer that they wanted the text of any agreement or memo of understanding with China to be made public.For now, China primarily appears willing to buy more American goods, like soybeans, but has not indicated how many other concessions it is prepared to make. And while both countries have expressed optimism about bridging their differences, Mr. Xi is facing pressure in China not to agree to a deal that would jeopardize his countrys economic or national security. Chinas economy is growing at its slowest pace in years, in part because of the American tariffs.Mr. Trump on Tuesday again portrayed Chinas economic weakness as the United States strength, saying it was in Chinas interest to make a deal. The United States, he said, could benefit by retaining tariffs on $250 billion worth of Chinese goods, and he again inaccurately suggested that China was paying the levies.Im happy either way, he said. I could live receiving billions and billions of dollars a month from China. China never gave us 10 cents. Now they are paying billions a month for the privilege of coming into the U.S. and honestly taking advantage.While the United States is collecting billions in tariffs, that money is not coming directly from China but from companies and customers who buy imported goods.Advertisement"
Paul Manaforts Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dads Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: Coal Mining Isnt Coming BackHouse Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab SpringCan The President Be Impeached? We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Glenn Thrush and Emily CochraneWASHINGTON  President Trumps legislative path to a border wall has narrowed significantly on the eve of Tuesdays State of the Union speech, and his fallback plan to circumvent Congress by declaring a state of emergency could create a major division in his own party.As he prepares to make his case to the largest national audience of the year, Mr. Trump appeared to be in an increasingly precarious position, unable to sway the wider public to his cause and unwilling, at least so far, to apply the persuasion and compromise that have gotten previous presidents out of political jams.Anxiety over the damage being inflicted on the party is growing. Last week, in a one-on-one meeting with the president, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, reportedly warned Mr. Trump that declaring a national emergency to build his wall would almost certainly spark a rebellion within his party  and a vote to overrule him. House and Senate negotiators have been moving toward a bipartisan agreement as early as Friday to keep the government funded after Feb. 15  with or without the presidents support.But the presidents supporters continue to plead for unity.This is the defining moment of his presidency, said Senator Lindsey Graham, a South Carolina Republican who is one of Mr. Trumps biggest supporters on Capitol Hill, speaking at an event in Greenville on Monday.To every Republican, if you dont stand behind this president, were not going to stand behind you when it comes to the wall, said Mr. Graham, adding that he feared a war within the Republican Party if Republicans did not support Mr. Trumps plans, including an emergency declaration.The presidents advisers have said the speech will focus on unity. But he is also expected to double down on the wall. In an Oval Office interview last week, he cast doubt on a settlement being hashed out by a bipartisan committee of 17 House members and senators before the Feb. 15 deadline, saying that anything short of his full demand would be a waste of time.At the same time, Mr. Trump continued to brandish the threat of an emergency declaration that would allow him to divert existing federal funding to the wall, an idea that has sparked heated opposition among Senate Republicans, who have grown increasingly comfortable in their defiance. On Monday, the Senate formally adopted an amendment to a broader Middle East policy bill, 70 to 26, that rebuked the president for what Republicans saw as a precipitous withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan and Syria.In December, Republican senators broke with him to call for the withdrawal of American support for Saudi Arabias war in Yemen, as they recoiled from his inaction in the face of the kingdoms murder of a Washington Post columnist, Jamal Khashoggi.Mr. Trump is not expected to declare the state of emergency during Tuesdays address. But he continues to threaten that he will divert funding for other military and infrastructure projects to build the wall, with or without congressional approval. He has told people close to him that he views the threat as his last remaining leverage in the fight.That has some Republicans openly fretting that such a declaration would embolden a Democratic president to declare a national emergency on climate change or gun violence.It would be a bad precedent, I think, for the president to decide to invoke national security as a way to bypass a congressional logjam, said Senator Patrick J. Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania. And I can imagine future presidents using that for purposes I would find very objectionable.That sentiment has been expressed by about a dozen Republican senators, publicly and privately, including Roy Blunt of Missouri, Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, Marco Rubio of Florida, Bill Cassidy of Louisiana and John Cornyn of Texas, who is considered to be among the most influential members of his party on immigration.The whole idea that a president  whether its President Trump or President Warren or President Sanders  can declare an emergency and then somehow usurp the separation of powers and get into the business of appropriating money for specific projects without Congress getting involved is a serious constitutional question, Mr. Cornyn said on Monday.But the most important critic of the declaration is Mr. McConnell. I dont think much of that idea, Mr. McConnell said last month when asked about the declaration. I hope he doesnt go down that path.Mr. McConnell, according to three people familiar with his thinking, has grown increasingly frustrated with the White House in recent days, telling associates that he thinks members of the presidents staff have failed to adequately brief him on the legislative and political perils of moving ahead with a disaster declaration.During his White House meeting, disclosed by The Washington Post, Mr. McConnell predicted that Speaker Nancy Pelosi would have the House immediately pass a resolution of disapproval attempting to block him from using existing funding for the wall.Any senator from either party could then demand a vote, because the resolution would be deemed privileged. Mr. McConnell told Mr. Trump that he would have no choice but to schedule a floor vote on the measure within 15 days, and Republican aides have estimated that between three and 10 Republicans would side with the chambers Democrats against Mr. Trump.That would force the president into a politically costly effort to keep the Senate from overriding his veto of the resolution, even as Democrats moved to block him in the courts.Hes been talking about all this for a month, in front of the cameras, said Don Stewart, a spokesman for Mr. McConnell, who played down the exchange.The leader delivered a similar message to Vice President Mike Pence and the presidents son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, three weeks ago during negotiations to reopen the government. Since then, both men have counseled the president to move cautiously on the emergency declaration, according to a senior administration official.Democrats have begun drafting legislation that would remove the presidents ability to shift money from one project to another. Representative John Garamendi, Democrat of California, would repeal a line in the 1986 Water Resources Development Act that grants the president authority to use civil works money to respond to a national emergency.Administration officials struck a defiant note on Monday, saying the president needed the threat of a declaration to pressure Ms. Pelosi.The Congress has failed to do its job  this Congress, last Congress and for quite a while to make sure that we have what we need at the southern border, which of course the centerpiece is a physical barrier, wall, steel slats, Kellyanne Conway, the counselor to the president, told reporters.The House-Senate negotiating committee assigned to hammer out a border-security deal to keep the government funded is expected to work through the week and into the weekend. Lawmakers will begin working out some of the more tenuous aspects of the funding bill as early as Tuesday. Among the expected snags are a Democratic provision that would prohibit the use of funds to deny asylum applications from survivors of gang violence and domestic violence, whether to increase or decrease the number of detention beds used by Immigration and Customs Enforcement and what constitutes a border barrier.Democrats prefer a smart wall made up of sensors, drones and other technology but no physical structure. Republicans say some physical barrier is necessary, though not a concrete wall from the Pacific Ocean to the Gulf of Mexico.House Republicans on the committee spent Sunday and Monday on the border in Texas in McAllen and El Paso, accompanied by Representative Henry Cuellar, Democrat of Texas. Senator Richard C. Shelby, Republican of Alabama and the chairman of the Appropriations Committee, has also suggested bringing experts in to testify on what is needed in border security.But all of that work could be blown up by an emergency declaration, a move that would endear Mr. Trump to the Republican base while infuriating Democrats.I think hes going to do it, said Jeff Roe, a veteran Republican consultant and longtime political adviser to Senator Ted Cruz of Texas. Hes responding to what too many Republicans ignore, which is the screaming and yelling from our base to do something. Lets stop fighting ourselves and letting Democrats kick us in the face. Weve been making these types of promises for ten to 15 years. Tax cuts and regulatory reform aint enough. We want the wall.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe InterpreterBy Max FisherLONDON  President Trumps push for a border wall hints at a problem that populist leaders are facing across the Western world.After a year of setbacks, populist leaders and parties are trying to rejuvenate their fortunes by revitalizing the sense of crisis on which they thrive. But as with Mr. Trumps demand for a border wall  which has brought a two-week government shutdown  this may say more about populisms weakness than its strength.Immigration and terrorism crises, which aided populisms world-shaking rise in 2016, have waned. Populists have faced disappointing election results in Germany, the United States and even Poland, shattering the image of the movements inevitability and its claims to represent true popular will.The Wests populist leaders and parties have grown defensive, retreating into ever-starker messages of us-versus-them. The approach excites their most dedicated followers. But it can be risky, forcing voters to pick sides at a moment when the populist right holds declining appeal.Cas Mudde, a Dutch political scientist and leading scholar of populism, has predicted that the movements once-meteoric rise will become modest and uneven in 2019, with more setbacks ahead.Populism is hardly dying. It holds power in the United States, Italy and a few Eastern European countries, as well as meaningful parliamentary minorities in much of Western Europe, where populist parties now reliably win about one in six votes.Still, without a crisis to justify populisms hard-line policies, its message has been stripped down to its most core element: opposition to liberal ideals of pluralism, multiculturalism and international cooperation.The result is a new phase in the populist era, one that will test populisms appeal  and that of its ideological rival, postwar establishment liberalism  as never before.This story, playing out across Western democracies, may be encapsulated best by the still-unfolding drama of Mr. Trump, the government shutdown and the border wall.Two years after he won the presidency, threats supposedly posed by immigration and terrorism in the United States have not materialized.Illegal immigration continued its 10-year decline. A spate of terrorist attacks inspired by the Islamic State occurred before Mr. Trump took office.Americans lost enthusiasm for strict policies like Mr. Trumps promised wall on the Mexican border, which polls poorly. Republicans suffered a devastating defeat in the midterm elections. Mr. Trumps divisive message, rather than pulling more voters in, had pushed some away.But populists, who thrive on conflict against an existential threat, cannot bend with popular will as easily as mainstream parties. Rather than giving up on his wall and compromising his vision, Mr. Trump has dug in.Populists in Europe had a similarly rocky year.In Britain, support for Brexit has slipped below 50 percent. Polls suggest a majority of voters want a second referendum. Brexit hard-liners in the governing Conservative Party tried and failed to eject Theresa May, the prime minister, over her support for a softer Brexit.In Germany, the rise of Alternative for Germany, a far-right party, has stalled. It performed worse than expected in elections in the border state of Bavaria, where immigration is a major issue, and worse than it fared a year earlier.When Bavarias center-right party tried to co-opt the populist message and challenge Chancellor Angela Merkel over immigration, it suffered election losses. Ms. Merkel survived, her approval rating spiked and she lined up a centrist successor.Many Western populists are falling back to their message of besiegement and threat, as much out of the paranoid worldview that is central to populism as out of any conscious strategy.Brexit hard-liners are pointing to the 470 people who illegally crossed the English Channel by boat last year, a drop in the bucket compared with the hundreds of thousands of arrivals to Europe in 2015 and 2016. Mr. Trump has claimed, with no hard evidence, mayhem at the Mexican border.But dividing the world into us versus them works only if voters want to belong to us and oppose them, typically establishment elites and cultural outsiders.In Europe, many more voters have had contact with migrants since 2016, which research suggests can lessen fear and resentment. In the United States, the buoyed economy has undercut fears of economic competition from immigrants.One of the countries most often cited as a populist success last year may also underscore the movements challenges.The Sweden Democrats, a populist party, won 17.5 percent of the vote, its highest share ever, in a national election in September. If populists could surge this high, this fast even in Sweden, a bastion of liberalism, surely it represented a global shift.But polls tell a different story.Support for the Sweden Democrats has not grown since the end of 2015, just as the refugee crisis began tapering off. And the partys share of the vote last year was only slightly more than that of Dutch far-right populists in 2017, which had been considered a disappointing setback for the movement.Swedens experience may suggest that Western populists rose only with the refugee and terrorism crises and that, as those crises have faded, populism has stalled out well below the numbers needed for it to sustainably hold power.A review of populisms global performance, conducted by Jordan Kyle and Limor Gultchin of the London-based Institute for Global Change, reached a similar finding.Populists today hold 20 governments worldwide  the same number they held in 2010, have held most years since and have never surpassed. What we perceive as a new wave may in fact be populism shifting out of poorer countries, often in Latin America, where they have since suffered setbacks, to the West.But there is another way to read cases like Sweden: not as the populist wave cresting, but as the liberal consensus breaking. Even if populists win power only occasionally, struggle in office and mostly consign themselves to an angry minority, that they play any role at all represents a seismic change.Their rise, even if it never progresses much further, could still reshape Western politics in ways we are only beginning to understand.Stripped of claims to be responding to an immigration crisis, the populist message is taking on a certain clarity  and proving an enduring, if narrow, appeal.Though these parties surged in support only recently, their slow but steady rise dates to the 1960s, when postwar liberalism took hold.Ever since, they have used crises to hit on deeper fears of demographic and cultural change brought about by liberalism. And they have channeled opposition to an establishment consensus that called it taboo to question liberal ideals.There has always been some discomfort with the aspect of liberalism that populists are most aggressively challenging: the notion that democracies must extend rights and protections to outsiders.Western populists have surfaced that discomfort and given it voice. By winning at least enough votes to force the world to listen, they have opened up space for Western voters to reject liberal strictures explicitly.Parties like the Sweden Democrats and Alternative for Germany may no longer have much hope of leveraging crises to win power outright. But there appears to be enough latent opposition to liberalism to keep populists well involved in politics.Border crises, real or imagined, are ideal for this message. They highlight aspects of liberalism that people find most objectionable: promises to protect outsiders, demands that countries compromise sovereignty and the softening of fixed, racially defined national identities.So perhaps when Brexit hard-liners or Bavarian populists play up border crises that may seem exaggerated they are speaking to a deeper concern among their small but dedicated base.That may be enough to keep them in national legislatures and conversations. Even if populists in the West never advance beyond their heights in 2016, they will remain in a strong position to challenge liberalisms postwar hold over Western democracies.Even in countries like Germany or France, where centrist leaders hold power, the establishment party system has collapsed. Seva Gunitsky, a University of Toronto political scientist, has argued that the distinction between democracy and authoritarianism is already blurring, with more elected leaders taking on the tools and tactics of strongmen.Postwar liberal democracy is simply too new of a system, scholars of democracy say, to know whether it can survive these challenges. We may look back at 2016 as a populist blip associated with one-off crises, or as the beginning of a process of chipping away at liberal democracy from within.For anyone who was hoping for a break in the hectic politics of the past years, Mr. Mudde wrote in his assessment of populisms prospects, 2019 wont be it.An earlier version of this article misstated Angela Merkels title. She is the chancellor of Germany, not the prime minister.The Interpreter is a column by Max Fisher and Amanda Taub exploring the ideas and context behind major world events. Follow them on Twitter: @Max_Fisher and @amandataub.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Liam StackThe Texas secretary of states office on Friday called into question the citizenship status of 95,000 registered voters who were found to have identified themselves at some point to a state law enforcement agency as noncitizen, legal residents of the United States.The office of David Whitley, the secretary of state, said its findings were a result of an 11-month investigation with the Texas Department of Public Safety that also found that about 58,000 people on the list had voted since 1996. The results of the investigation were referred on Friday to Attorney General Ken Paxton, who said he planned to open a potentially sprawling investigation.The two announcements seemed certain to reignite partisan debates over the frequency and impact of voter fraud, which Republicans have claimed is rampant in America. Democrats scoff at that notion, and a voter fraud commission started by (and later angrily disbanded by) President Trump found no evidence of widespread electoral fraud.Every single instance of illegal voting threatens democracy in our state and deprives individual Texans of their voice, Mr. Paxton, a firebrand conservative who has prosecuted isolated cases of illegal voting with gusto, said in a statement. Nothing is more vital to preserving our Constitution than the integrity of our voting process, and my office will do everything within its abilities to solidify trust in every election in the state of Texas.But Democrats and voting rights advocates were skeptical of the states claims. More than 8.3 million people voted in the Texas governors race last year, which means that even if all 58,000 people who voted were, in fact, found to be noncitizens and voted in 2018  a claim that no state official has made  they would have amounted to only 0.69 percent of all votes that were cast.Because we have consistently seen Texas politicians conjure the specter of voter fraud as pretext to suppress legitimate votes, we are naturally skeptical, Representative Rafael Anchia, a Democrat in the Texas House of Representatives, said in a statement.Kristen Clarke, the president of the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, also cautioned that the states findings, and the speed with which the attorney general raised the specter of prosecution, could foreshadow an attempt at voter suppression.Texas has a rich history of undertaking action to make it harder for people to vote, she said. Whenever youre invoking the threat of criminal prosecution, the chilling effect becomes almost unavoidable.Her organization sued Texas over its 2017 voter registration law, which a federal appeals court ruled last year was not discriminatory against black and Latino voters. She described the law on Friday as one of the most restrictive voter ID laws in the nation.Sam Taylor, a spokesman for the secretary of state, said the announcement on Friday did not mean that the authorities had discovered 95,000 registered voters who it knew for a fact were noncitizens.Instead, the office was advising local officials to ask these voters via mail to provide proof of their citizenship. Mr. Taylor noted that it is a felony for noncitizens to vote in Texas, and a misdemeanor for them to register.Mr. Taylor said the authorities believed that the method they had used to identify these potentially problematic voter registrations had left very little, if any room for error.He said the investigation used a range of identifiers  including first and last names, birth dates and full or partial Social Security numbers  to cross-reference voter rolls and public safety records.For example, he said, if someone had used a green card to apply for a drivers license, that would remain on file with the Department of Public Safety, which is responsible for law enforcement and vehicle registration.We cant see a situation in which this would produce a false positive, he said. These are people whose last and most recent visits to D.P.S. showed them to be noncitizens through documentation that they submitted and which D.P.S. has kept on file.But Ms. Clarke said there were often mundane explanations for cases like these, including simple administrative error.In our experience, state databases are often riddled with errors, are not up-to-date and dont reflect the most recent information with regard to individuals, she said. It will be very important for the state to provide more information about how they carried out their analysis, and we will have to test the veracity of their claims.Julia Jacobs and Manny Fernandez contributed reporting.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie Haberman, Sharon LaFraniere and Ben ProtessWASHINGTON  Private donors put up $107 million to usher Donald J. Trump into office in style two years ago, and it is now clear just how enthusiastically his inaugural committee went to town with it.There was $10,000 for makeup for 20 aides at an evening inaugural event. There was another $30,000 in per diem payments to dozens of contract staff members, in addition to their fully covered hotel rooms, room service orders, plane tickets and taxi rides, including some to drop off laundry.The bill from the Trump International Hotel was more than $1.5 million. And there was a documentary, overseen by a close friend of Melania Trumps, that was ultimately abandoned.The details of the expenditures, gleaned from interviews and from documents reviewed by The New York Times and not previously made public, show that the committee spent heavily on nearly every aspect of the events surrounding the inauguration.In 72 days, it laid out about $100 million, roughly twice as much or more than was raised by Barack Obama or George W. Bush for their first and second presidential inaugurations.The expansive spending reflected Mr. Trumps desire to make a grand entrance, with roughly 20 events around Washington, people familiar with the events said. It also had the hallmarks of previous Trump efforts, such as the campaign, with some Trump-family friends circumventing existing chains of command.Disclosure of the spending details comes at a time when the inaugural committee is facing legal scrutiny over the donations that funded it.Inaugural committees are required to document every donation with the Federal Election Commission, and the Trump teams reports are now under investigation by federal prosecutors in Manhattan and Brooklyn. Investigators are also looking into whether any foreign donations, which are illegal in the United States, were passed through Americans, and whether any donations went unrecorded, people familiar with the inquiries said.People involved with the committee have said that they vetted all donors, but that they could do only so much to prove someones money was their own. False statements to the Federal Election Commission can be a crime.The investigation by federal prosecutors in Manhattan was prompted at least partly by a recording that Mr. Trumps former lawyer and fixer, Michael D. Cohen, made of a conversation he had with a central figure in the inaugural planning, Stephanie Winston Wolkoff, shortly after Mrs. Trump ended Ms. Winston Wolkoffs role as an unpaid adviser to the first lady. Ms. Winston Wolkoff was dismissed after initial reports about the amount of money taken in by the entity she formed to help produce the inaugural.There is no indication of any investigation into the inaugural committees spending. For the most part, inaugural committees are free to spend the money they raise from private donations as they wish.The bulk of the money for the inaugural committee came from big corporations, like AT&T, Bank of America and Pfizer, and wealthy Republicans donors, like Sheldon G. Adelson and Andrew Beal.Given the short time frame between Election Day and Inauguration Day, inaugural committees cannot always seek out the lowest bidder. In the case of Mr. Trumps inaugural, some staff members and major vendors were veterans of previous inaugurations.Much of the spending, while outsize, was mundane. Documents reviewed by The Times accounted for the entire $107 million raised for the inaugural, with most of the money going to payroll expenses and roughly 40 entities, the bulk of which were hotel chains and other vendors.Roughly $5 million went to charity, which organizers have noted is the most ever for an inaugural committee.But millions were written off in lost revenue. That included $6.4 million for blocks of hotel rooms booked for guests who ended up arranging their own accommodations. The Republican National Committee booked the excess hotel rooms before the inaugural staff was even formed, but the committee had to pony up when only half as many rooms were used as the party organization had expected.Another $1.2 million in revenue that the committee expected to recoup for a media center never materialized.Other arrangements by the inaugural committee also proved unusual.Ms. Winston Wolkoff, then a close friend of Mrs. Trumps, was initially signed to a $1.6 million contract. Along with a friend, Jonathan Reynaga, she formed WIS Media Partners, a firm that oversaw broadcast rights for the inaugural events and worked on the documentary project featuring interviews with top inaugural committee officials.The idea was to sell the rights to a major distributor. The project was later abandoned, although the interview footage still exists, as do copies, according to three people familiar with the effort.WIS Media Partners became the inaugural committees top vendor, acting as a kind of general contractor and overseeing a series of events. It received nearly $26 million, much of which was paid out to other vendors.Steve Kerrigan, who was chief of staff for Mr. Obamas first inaugural committee, said that the firms $1.6 million supervisory fee was the equivalent of roughly one-fourth of what we paid our entire 450-person staff in 2009. Even if Ms. Winston Wolkoff shared the fee among more than a dozen other top managers, as she and others say she did, the charge itself, Mr. Kerrigan said, was outrageous.Greg Jenkins, the executive director of Mr. Bushs second inaugural, said, I have never heard anybody getting that kind of fee associated with any inaugural, ever.Ms. Winston Wolkoff often fought with other top aides, according to people with direct knowledge of events. She was known to threaten to have senior officials fired, at times brandishing a cellphone and saying she would text Mrs. Trump or Ivanka Trump, the presidents elder daughter, conveying a sense of authority that people later came to realize she did not have, three people with direct knowledge of the events said.A lawyer for Ms. Winston Wolkoff declined to comment.A spokesman for WIS Media Partners said all of the firms charges were vetted, authorized and signed off on by the committees top officials, including Thomas J. Barrack Jr., the committees chairman; Rick Gates, the deputy chairman; and Sara Armstrong, the chief executive.He said the firms fees were significantly below the customary charges for equivalent productions, and that officials provided the inaugural committee with all its audited records and receipts. He said the company could not reveal more because it is legally barred by the inaugural committee from discussing its work on the inaugural events.In a statement, Mr. Barrack said he continues to be proud of the incredible work of all those that were part of the committee and that it complied with all laws and regulations, and its finances were fully audited internally and independently. The donors were fully vetted and disclosed to the Federal Election Commission as required.Mr. Trumps inaugural committee has come under scrutiny in the past for its high administrative and logistical costs. The new details help flesh out how the inaugural spent the money. Among the payments was more than $2 million spent on the firm of the Trump campaign official Brad Parscale for online advertisements to drum up inaugural crowds.Another $2.7 million was spent on flying in a performance group working with Steve Wynn, the casino magnate and friend of Mr. Trump.The Trump International Hotel was paid more than $1.5 million for services including the use of a ballroom, an annex and a space called the townhouse, according to records and people familiar with the payments.While two other hotels, the Willard and the Fairmont, collected as much or more, Mr. Trumps hotel was also favored by vendors who billed their expenses directly to the committee.Over all, the Trump teams spending appears astronomical, said Emmett S. Beliveau, who was chief executive of Mr. Obamas first inaugural committee.Mr. Jenkins, who handled the Bush inaugural, said the scale of the Trump teams spending blows me away.Ms. Winston Wolkoff and Mr. Reynaga brought in nearly three dozen staff members, some of whom flew in from Los Angeles or other cities and remained on the East Coast for weeks. WIS also helped bring in a New York-based party planner named David Monn, who refused to sign a contract, according to two people familiar with the arrangement. Mr. Monn charged the committee a total of $3.7 million, from which he paid subcontractors.Among other tasks, Ms. Winston Wolkoff and colleagues managed the 500-person black-tie dinner hosted by Mr. Barrack at the neo-Classical Andrew W. Mellon Auditorium and a 1,500-person candlelight dinner at Union Station. They decided the decorations were not elegant enough and needed to be enhanced.Mr. Monn spent $924,000 on seven-foot-high wreaths, moss-covered obelisks, flowers and other decorations to dress up Union Station. Makeup was provided for 20 staff members at a cost of $500 per person. For the dinner at the auditorium, table menus, table numbers and place cards, including an on-site calligrapher to correct last-minute mistakes, amounted to $91 per guest. Mr. Monn did not respond to repeated requests for comment on Monday.The handling of expenses for contractors like WIS Media Partners was also unusual. Mr. Kerrigan, who also served as chief executive of Mr. Obamas second inaugural committee, said officials negotiated fixed-price contracts that limited how much vendors could charge for expenses.If a vendors staff member ran up a big room service bill, that was on them, said David Cusack, who was the executive director of the second committee. They had a per diem, and they were supposed to eat on that.For Mr. Bushs second inaugural, too, vendors were required to build their expenses into their contracts, Mr. Jenkins said. He said his committee did not even hire vendors from outside the Washington area because there was no need to.The Trump inaugural committee covered not only a fixed per diem for the people brought in by WIS Media, but picked up expenses including room service, cab rides for assistants who dropped off laundry and an order of McDonalds. All told, those expenses came to $227,511.In less than two months, WIS billed $31,000 for hotel rooms described as Mr. Reynagas, including nearly $18,000 for rooms at the Trump International Hotel, according to detailed expense documents reviewed by The Times. He also billed thousands of dollars for meals, room service and travel. On one day, he charged a $560 Amtrak train ticket from New York to Washington, plus a $251 first-class upgrade to meet with Mr. Barrack. That was followed by a $100 Uber ride the next day to get to Toms plane, the records show.The spokesman for WIS said WIS expenses were paid through business cards tied to a few senior officials of the firm, including Mr. Reynaga, meaning that Mr. Reynaga could have been paying for other employees costs.He also said staff members stayed at the Trump International Hotel at the explicit direction of inaugural committee officials. A former official of the inaugural committee denied that the WIS employees were required to stay at the Trump hotel.Maggie Haberman and Sharon LaFraniere reported from Washington, and Ben Protess from New York.Advertisement"
Paul Manaforts Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dads Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: Coal Mining Isnt Coming BackHouse Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab SpringCan The President Be Impeached? We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Hiroko TabuchiWant climate news in your inbox? Sign up here for Climate Fwd:, our email newsletter.JOHNSON COUNTY, Ind.  The children fell ill, one by one, with cancers that few families in this suburban Indianapolis community had ever heard of. An avid swimmer struck down by glioblastoma, which grew a tumor in her brain. Four children with Ewings sarcoma, a rare bone cancer. Fifteen children with acute lymphocytic leukemia, including three cases diagnosed in the past year.At first, families put the illnesses down to misfortune. But as cases mounted, parents started to ask: Could it be something in the air or water?Their questions led them to an old industrial site in Franklin, the Johnson County seat, that the federal government had ordered cleaned up decades ago. Recent tests have identified a carcinogenic plume spreading underground, releasing vapors into homes.Now, families in a county that voted overwhelmingly for President Trump are making demands of his administration that collide directly with one of his main agendas: the rolling back of health and environmental regulations.On Wednesday, a group representing dozens of concerned parents called for a federal investigation by the Environmental Protection Agencys Office of Inspector General  the same watchdog that examined the governments slow response to the water crisis in Flint, Mich.  into why Franklins toxic plume of trichloroethylene, or TCE, persists.The group accuses the E.P.A. of serious mismanagement and significant delays at the site, even after the dangers became apparent this summer, according to a letter the group said it sent to the E.P.A.s Office of the Inspector General.But the parents demands also reach well beyond immediate concerns about the chemicals under their feet. Families across the political spectrum have also spoken out against the Trump administrations drive to weaken restrictions on TCE, a colorless fluid with a subtle, sweet odor used by as many as four-fifths of the nations 65,000 dry cleaners, as well as about 2,200 factories and other facilities. Decades ago, it was used at the Franklin site.Twice last year, parents from Johnson County traveled to Washington to urge the administration to stick with stronger controls.We are done begging, said Kari Rhinehart, the mother of Emma Grace Findley, the 13-year-old swimmer who developed brain cancer and died in 2014. We are demanding the E.P.A. finish what it started and place these restrictions on TCE and other dangerous toxins.The E.P.A. confirmed that the chemicals were present near the Franklin site and said that fewer than 10 of 37 homes it had tested had potential air quality issues. The agency said its testing was continuing and that, if necessary, homes would be fitted with devices to clean the air. Declaring TCE carcinogenic to humans by all routes of exposure, the Obama administration had sought to restrict two of its riskiest uses, as a stain remover and as a degreaser, and had marked it for further review, potentially to ban the chemical altogether. It had also moved to strengthen cleanup rules for hundreds of sites nationwide believed to be contaminated. But at the urging of industry groups, the Trump administration has stalled some of those moves. In 2017 it indefinitely postponed the proposed bans on risky uses, leaving as many as 178,000 workers potentially exposed. It also scaled back a broad review of TCE and other chemicals so that it would exclude from its calculations possible exposure from groundwater and other forms of contamination  the problems present in Franklin. In Johnson County, a parents group co-founded by Mrs. Rhinehart, If It Was Your Child, has traced at least 58 childhood cancer cases since 2008. At 21.7 cases of pediatric cancer per 100,000 children, Johnson Countys rate puts it in the 80th percentile among counties nationwide, according to data for 2011-2015 from the National Cancer Institute. Both the national and Indiana average are fewer than 18 pediatric cancers per 100,000 children. You dont expect to see so many cancers in a relatively small community, said Dr. Paolo Boffetta, professor in environmental medicine and public health at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai in New York. Even so, he stressed that there was little research linking childhood cancers to TCE. This doesnt mean an association doesnt exist, he said. But studies have not been able to confirm it. Motria Caudill, a scientist at the federal Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, which investigates environmental hazards, said at a community meeting in Franklin in November that it was still too early to draw conclusions. Her agency was still working with others, she said, just to see what is going on. The TCE contamination has been traced to a former factory that, for years, discharged industrial wastewater into a municipal sewer. Amphenol, an electronics maker based in Wallingford, Conn., became responsible for the cleanup after acquiring the site, though it no longer owns the property.In June, tests by an environmental group, Edison Wetlands Association, working with parents, detected the chemical in the air at two homes and in outdoor air near the site. The findings prompted more tests by local and state government officials, including one by Franklin that found levels more than 250 times state limits around a sewer near the homes. In November, the E.P.A. identified a plume of contamination stretching beyond the site toward nearby homes.Joseph Bianchi, an Amphenol spokesman, said the company was working to help ensure the well-being of residents, and the E.P.A. has promised to team up with the company on a cleanup plan. But at the November community meeting, patience wore thin. When will this cleanup be done and gone, asked Sonya Hallett, a local philanthropy consultant and mother of one, and not hazardous to people who are living around it?The state investigators who descended on Jennifer Clarks house in October drilled into her basement floor. They sought signs that chemicals in the ground were turning into a vapor and rising into her home, a phenomenon known as vapor intrusion.Her daughter Chelsea learned when she was 12 that she had acute lymphoblastic leukemia, a cancer of the blood and bone marrow. After chemotherapy, Chelsea, now 18, is in remission; she dreams of working in the beauty industry.But over the summer, the Clarks received daunting news. Tests at their home on behalf of the Franklin parents group detected TCE levels more than 18 times federal limits. Testing is tricky. Results can be affected by the weather or even by doors left open, said Kelly Pennell, associate director of the federally funded Superfund Research Center at the University of Kentucky. Indeed, later tests showed lower levels in the house. Still, the Clarks remain worried. Their youngest daughter is now 12. This is our forever home right here, where the kids are going to come back with the grandkids, Mrs. Clark said. They live about a mile and a half from the former industrial site in Franklin, now a patch of grass bordered by old railroad tracks to the north and neat rows of homes to the south.Amphenol agreed to a cleanup in 1990, installing a pump and treat system that was supposed to control the contamination. For decades Amphenol pumped out groundwater, but contamination remained. The technologys apparent ineffectiveness raises questions about hundreds of other sites using it, said Shannon Lisa, program director at Edison Wetlands.How many other communities across the United States are facing these very same issues? she said.Two girls lived, several years apart, in the same Franklin apartment about a mile from the toxic site. Both developed cancer, one at age 8 and the other at 14.You cant go anywhere, or do anything, without meeting someone whos been affected, said Angela Brennan, whose daughter, Karley, was one of those girls. In 2012, the family learned that Karley had cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, a rare cancer affecting the skin. Later that year, 14-year-old Madison Newton was told that she had an aggressive form of pilocytic astrocytoma, which causes tumors in the brain and spinal cord.Karley, who turns 15 this week, is in remission. Madison died in 2015. And across Franklin, If It Was Your Child yard signs dot the city, where a local TV station, WTHR Channel 13, is doggedly tracking the concerns. There are conflicting views in Johnson County of the administrations environmental rollbacks. There is talk that the federal government should get out of peoples lives, even as local officials have called on the E.P.A. to take over the response to the contamination. When it comes to public health, we can go against party lines. And I dont agree with trying to roll back the E.P.A.s role, said Steve Barnett, Franklins mayor and a Republican. Back in the day, there werent any rules. Thats why there was so much contamination, he said. Many members of If It Was Your Child in the Franklin area play down the politics, noting that both parties have let the cleanup fall by the wayside. Nevertheless, their demands come at a time when the Trump administration has weakened the very rules that could prevent another Franklin.We should not have to fight Republicans or Democrats to save our children. Its not a political fight for us, said Stacie Davidson, a Trump voter who co-founded the parents group with Mrs. Rhinehart (who didnt vote for Mr. Trump). Mrs. Davidson said, His loosening of E.P.A. regulations, its infuriating. She added, Were ruining the environment for money.Mrs. Davidson learned in 2014 that her stepson, Zane, who was 10 at the time, had a rare form of leukemia. He is now in remission. She has traveled to Washington to speak in favor of stronger TCE regulations. What were fighting for is seemingly being undone right now, she said.Still, she said, she did not regret her vote. Trumps a businessman. There are great things he can do for our country. But hes used to building high rises for money, she said. Hes not as environmentally savvy. Our hope is that he surrounds himself with people who are more knowledgeable.Despite the emergence of alternatives to TCE, the Trump administration has stalled action on restricting its use. There have been greener alternatives to TCE for years, said Tom Forsythe, an executive vice president at Kyzen, a Tennessee cleaning-materials company, who joined E.P.A. officials in a conference call in August 2017 to lay out other options.But a few months later, in October, when E.P.A. officials visited the Integer medical devices factory in Minneapolis, Minn., the agency received a different message. According to Integer, there are no effective alternatives, read an E.P.A. memo about the visit, which was arranged by a chemicals group, the Halogenated Solvents Industry Alliance. Dry cleaners have also lobbied against a tightening of protections, arguing among other things that substitutes could harm clothing.Yes, we have spoken to E.P.A. about our desire not to have TCE banned  as is our right of free speech, said Faye Graul, the chemical groups executive director. TCE is used in tightly controlled industrial settings, she said, with controls in place so that no workers are harmed.Johnson County bills itself as the festival county. In December, it hosted a holiday parade and a drive-through Nativity with live actors. And the economy is strong. A technology park measuring nearly a million square feet is soon opening in Franklin.I see good things that Trump has done, said Mr. Barnett, the mayor, emphasizing his towns future. The economys good. Theres been a lot of investment into our city. Recently, though, Mrs. Rhinehart has been thinking of the past. Four Christmases ago, her daughter Emma Grace suffered two severe seizures. She said, Mommy, somethings not right, and I knew we werent going to get much more time, Mrs. Rhinehart said, recalling their final conversation. I gave her some medication and she drifted off to sleep.For more news on climate and the environment, follow @NYTClimate on Twitter.Hiroko Tabuchi is a climate reporter. She joined The Times in 2008, and was part of the team awarded the 2013 Pulitzer Prize for Explanatory Reporting. She previously wrote about Japanese economics, business and technology from Tokyo.  @HirokoTabuchi  Facebook Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Keith BradsherBEIJING  A pending trade agreement between the United States and China could put few restrictions on Beijings control over the strength of its currency, potentially inflaming trade hawks in Congress and within the Trump administration itself.Chinas control over the value of its currency has long been a major point of conflict between Beijing and the West, though the issue has faded in prominence in recent years. Lawmakers and officials in other countries have contended that Beijing has unfairly weakened Chinas currency, the renminbi, compared with the American dollar and other currencies, giving Chinese companies and factories an advantage when selling goods abroad.China has long denied the accusation.Yi Gang, the governor of Chinas central bank, said at a news conference on Sunday morning in Beijing that during high-level trade talks last month in Washington, the two sides reached consensus on many key and important issues about currency markets.The consensus included an understanding that both countries would avoid devaluing their currencies to achieve a competitive advantage for their exports, Mr. Yi said. Both countries would also continue to comply with previous currency agreements among the Group of 20 economies, he said. Both countries would also maintain close communication about currency markets and would disclose detailed information in accordance with International Monetary Fund standards, he added.American officials have taken varying stances on the currency provisions. President Trump and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin have expressed satisfaction with them. But Robert E. Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, cautioned Congress in testimony two weeks ago that nothing was fully resolved in the trade negotiations until everything had been settled.Though the issue has ebbed as Chinas currency has strengthened in recent years, the trade war has given it new relevance. The renminbi fell 10 percent against the American dollar between February and October last year, to the intense annoyance of trade hawks in the Trump administration.In effect, that partly offset the 25 percent tariffs the Trump administration imposed over the summer on $50 billion a year in Chinese goods. It fully offset, at least temporarily, the 10 percent tariffs that Mr. Trump imposed last fall on an additional $200 billion a year in Chinese goods.But the renminbis fall corresponded to a credit crunch in China and the precipitous slowing of the Chinese economy. Chinese officials contend that the renminbis fall reflected the strength of the dollar, not currency manipulation on their part. Miao Yanliang, the chief economist at the Chinese central bank, the Peoples Bank of China, noted in a recent statement that the euro fell against the dollar at about the same pace as the renminbi from February to October last year, while the British pound fell even faster.Since the end of October, the renminbi has recovered nearly half its losses during last years slide. Foreign investors have poured money into Chinas stock market and bond market. They hope to profit from Chinas recent program of extra government spending and tax cuts, now being enacted to offset the economic slowdown.The currency provisions of the evolving trade agreement are essentially a reaffirmation of the statement that the G-20 economies, including China, issued when the groups finance ministers gathered in Shanghai in February 2016.In the Shanghai currency accord, all the groups finance ministers agreed that they would not deliberately devalue their currencies with the purpose of achieving a competitive advantage for their exports. When a countrys currency falls in value, that makes the countrys exports less expensive and more competitive in foreign countries.But the Shanghai currency accord, like the currency provisions in the Sino-American trade agreement now being negotiated, still allowed currencies to move up and down for lots of other reasons. These reasons include differences in interest rates and varying investment flows, as well as trade surpluses and deficits.China has long contended that these variables determine what happens to the value of its currency, and that it does not deliberately undervalue its currency to help exporters.The Shanghai currency accord did not require China to peg its currency at a specific value with respect to the dollar. Nor did it require China to maintain stability in the value of its currency with respect to a weighted average of the currencies of Chinas trading partners.Beijing argues that it is fairer to measure the renminbis value against a so-called basket of currencies of its trading partners, and not just against the dollar.The Shanghai currency accord also required G-20 finance ministers to notify each other of major changes in currency policy, and to disclose data in compliance with I.M.F. standards.In August 2015, China unexpectedly devalued its currency with no warning and very little explanation. It then quietly let the currency slide further from December 2015 through early January 2016.Japan had pushed hard for the Shanghai accord because of Japanese exporters alarm over the Chinese devaluation.That devaluation helped Chinas exporters a little, but it came at a very high cost to Beijing. Once the renminbi started sliding, it proved very hard to stop. The central bank ended up spending $1 trillion of its $4 trillion in foreign exchange reserves to stabilize the currency.Mr. Yi said on Sunday that the central bank now had a target of maintaining foreign exchange reserves of at least $3 trillion. The reserves have fluctuated at about that level for the past three years and totaled $3.09 trillion in February.That leaves very little room for the Chinese central bank to intervene again in currency markets without falling below the threshold set by Mr. Yi.The accusation by American officials that China manipulates its currency is based on a period from early 2001 to the summer of 2014 when the Chinese central bank did sell renminbi and buy dollars on a massive scale to keep the renminbi weak and help exporters.Chinas foreign reserves ballooned 24 fold in that period, rising to $4 trillion from $166 billion and dwarfing every other countrys reserves.But since then, Chinese officials have struggled to prevent the renminbi from falling. As the Chinese economy has slowed, many Chinese companies and families have looked for ways to send money out of the country, potentially destabilizing not just the renminbi, but also the Chinese financial system.Beijing has responded since 2016 with increasingly draconian restrictions on capital movements. Using the formidable investigative and surveillance capabilities of the Chinese police, the government has jailed people involved in surreptitious movements of cash abroad.The crackdown has almost completely halted what had been a flood of Chinese money into American real estate and even European soccer clubs in 2015 and early 2016. China now approves few overseas acquisitions by its companies except in areas where it could acquire a geopolitical or military advantage, such as aircraft production, heavy manufacturing, cybersecurity and artificial intelligence.Mr. Yi spoke on Sunday at the annual news conference of the central banks leadership, held in conjunction with the 11-day session of the National Peoples Congress.Follow Keith Bradsher on Twitter: @KeithBradsher.Ailin Tang contributed research.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy David E. Sanger and Edward WongWARSAW  In the eyes of Mike Pompeo, the day was shaping up to be one of his most commanding displays of diplomacy since becoming secretary of state. Months of planning had finally yielded a meeting among reluctant European officials, Arab leaders and the Israeli prime minister to strategize over confronting Iran.Then, in a lunchtime speech, Vice President Mike Pence shattered the fragile unity.Addressing the officials as they met this month in Warsaw, Mr. Pence denounced the United States closest allies  Britain, France and Germany  for coddling Irans murderous revolutionary regime. He demanded they stop undermining American-led sanctions and follow President Trump in renouncing a nuclear deal the Europeans were trying to save.Privately, Mr. Pompeo briefly erupted. Aides said he complained Mr. Pence had undermined diplomacy  which one European official said included near-agreement about imposing new sanctions on Irans ballistic missile tests  and prompted fresh headlines about trans-Atlantic tensions.But publicly, Mr. Pompeo never voiced his anger, keeping relations with the White House stable.Almost a year into his job, Mr. Pompeo, 55, has managed to pull off what few other Trump-era senior cabinet members have accomplished  staying in the presidents good graces and wielding power without countering White House pronouncements or policies.Now he faces his greatest test. This week, Mr. Pompeo will accompany Mr. Trump to a summit meeting in Hanoi, Vietnam, to try to keep an effort to rid North Korea of its nuclear weapons from going off the rails.Mr. Pompeo must keep Mr. Trump, 72, from being duped by the Norths wily leader, Kim Jong-un, who is half the presidents age. He also needs to prevent the president from undermining the American negotiating position on denuclearization. After meeting with Mr. Kim in June in Singapore, Mr. Trump declared that the matter was largely solved and that there is no longer a nuclear threat from North Korea  contradicting American intelligence agencies, whose judgments the president largely ignores. Mr. Pompeo told CNN on Sunday that the North remains a nuclear threat.In private discussions with Korea experts, Mr. Pompeo has conceded that he would be lucky if the North agreed to dismantle 60 percent of what the United States has demanded. But he said even that would be more than any other administration has achieved.Over all, Mr. Pompeo has been more of an evangelist for the presidents America First approach than any other cabinet member. Whether he should serve as a megaphone for Mr. Trump and the White House, or be more strident in confronting the president over the uncomfortable realities of foreign policy, is now the central question of Mr. Pompeos leadership of the United States diplomatic corps.Others in the administration wince at presidential tweets. Mr. Pompeo, a former Tea Party Republican congressman and C.I.A. director, tells his staff to evaluate each one on whether it can be leveraged into something useful.Sometimes he works behind the scenes to try to contain the damage, but rarely drops any hint of his opposition in public.After Mr. Trump abruptly declared in December that the United States would soon withdraw its 2,000 troops from Syria, the defense secretary, Jim Mattis, resigned. But Mr. Pompeo told aides the withdrawal was the presidents prerogative and defended it as a change in tactics, not in mission.Still, he is not always in step with Mr. Trump. He has pushed ahead with sanctions against Russia, and in Poland, he watched American and Polish troops in a live-fire exercise near the Russian border  an unsubtle message to Moscow not to test the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.But generally, Mr. Pompeo, a strong partisan and ideologue, aligns with Mr. Trump. In a scathing nationalistic speech in Brussels in December, Mr. Pompeo criticized institutions the United States helped create to maintain its global power  the United Nations, European Union, World Bank, International Monetary Fund and World Trade Organization.In a January speech in Cairo, Mr. Pompeo  attacked the policies of President Barack Obama. There has been little, if any, precedent for such a broadside of former administrations from a sitting secretary of state. Mr. Pompeo was widely criticized for it. By contrast, he praised President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, Egypts repressive leader. He did the same with two other leaders who have authoritarian tendencies, President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil and Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary.On major issues, the president is working to undermine us, and if Secretary Pompeo is supporting that, this is a fault, said R. Nicholas Burns, an under secretary of state under President George W. Bush and a Harvard professor whom Mr. Pompeo has consulted.Hes an institutionalist, and hes done some things well, starting with rejuvenating the State Department after Rex Tillerson dismantled so much, Mr. Burns said, referring to the presidents first secretary of state. But on policy, he has been the voice of unilateralism, of our way or the highway. And hes discovering, just recently, that the world is pushing back.This article is based on conversations with more than two dozen current and former American officials, foreign diplomats and policy advisers, most of whom agreed to discuss Mr. Pompeo on the condition of anonymity.John R. Bolton, the national security adviser, sometimes expresses his own views and tries to bend policy, as he did on Syria, when he said American troops would stay as long as Iran had troops on Syrian soil. Mr. Trump quickly quashed that thought.By contrast, Mr. Pompeo unfailingly sticks to the presidential line. For example, he publicly refuses to acknowledge the intelligence agencies assessments  including those prepared by his former staff at the C.I.A.  that contradict Mr. Trump on matters like North Korea, Iran, Saudi Arabia and the Islamic State.The president has rewarded Mr. Pompeos loyalty by anointing him the point person on several signature issues. Those include North Korea and  Afghanistan, a subject on which one American official said Mr. Pompeo and Mr. Trump speak directly to each other, sidelining Mr. Bolton.Mr. Pompeo, an evangelical Christian, also talks of global religious freedom as a priority.The American foreign policy establishment is ambivalent toward Mr. Pompeo, praising him for reinvigorating the diplomatic corps while criticizing him for his policies and ideology.After he took over the State Department last April, Mr. Pompeo promised to return swagger to the ranks, which had been depleted and demoralized under Mr. Tillerson. He resumed hiring young diplomats and appointed respected career officials to  top positions. Still, many ambassadorships remain empty, which he blames on a Senate backlog.Mr. Pompeo is much more in sync with Mr. Trump on policy than with career foreign service officers, whose recommendations often contradict the White House. Mr. Pompeo supported the presidents decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris climate accord and the Iran nuclear deal  two of Mr. Obamas signature initiatives that many American diplomats enthusiastically backed.Mr. Trumps move to withdraw American troops from Syria shocked Brett McGurk, who served for more than four years as the special envoy to the coalition fighting the Islamic State. Mr. McGurk resigned and was swiftly labeled a grandstander by the president. Mr. Pompeo remained silent and on the sidelines.Shortly after the first meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim, the Norths leader, Mr. Pompeo began trying to turn their vague communiqu from Singapore into a road map for denuclearization.It was not easy. Mr. Trumps tweets that the problems were solved led Russia and China to loosen restrictions on trade with North Korea. When Mr. Pompeo visited Pyongyang, the Norths capital, in July, Mr. Kim refused to see him. And Mr. Pompeo got nowhere on persuading North Korea to declare its nuclear assets.Months later, the priorities have changed. While Mr. Trump once talked about swift movement on denuclearization, he has since said there is plenty of time.Mr. Pompeos chief envoy for North Korea, Stephen E. Biegun, signaled in a January speech that Pyongyang might not need to disclose its nuclear assets until later in the process  raising questions in the National Security Council and among arms experts about how they would know if Mr. Kim had actually reduced his arsenal. Had Mr. Pompeo moved the goal posts?In Hanoi, Mr. Pompeos largest challenge will be to extract from Mr. Kim a timetable for dismantling his nuclear program. He must also reconcile how the United States and the North define denuclearization, and wants to keep Mr. Trump from having much time alone with Mr. Kim, where the president might make snap concessions.While Mr. Pompeo still insists complete, verifiable denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula is the goal, he says Pyongyang may begin to receive benefits  perhaps a liaison office  as he seeks to reduce the threat from a nuclear-armed North Korea.To some, that word, reduce, is a sign of a creeping acceptance of reality.A senior aide said Mr. Pompeo has been all about Iran, dating to his time in Congress. His forceful approach has incited tensions with European allies and the Iraqi government, whose support the Trump administration needs to keep American troops there.Mr. Pompeo is banking that sanctions on Iran will compel political change there. In Warsaw, Mr. Pompeo said he hoped the Iranian people would rise up against their autocratic government, which he has criticized for its nuclear and ballistic missile programs and regional military campaigns.To his frustration, the European countries that negotiated the nuclear deal alongside the United States  Britain, France, Germany  refuse to follow Washingtons lead. They are working to keep Iran in the deal and to continue trade. Few other issues have so poisoned relations with allies.The same is true in Baghdad, where Mr. Pompeo pressed Iraqi leaders in January to stop buying energy from neighboring Iran. Weeks later, the Iraqi prime minister said he would not abide by American sanctions, given that natural gas and electricity from Iran are critical for power-starved Iraq. And in September, over the objections of Iraqi officials and some American diplomats, Mr. Pompeo closed the United States Consulate in Basra, citing concerns about Iran.Mr. Pompeo has followed Mr. Trumps lead in reaffirming ties with Saudi Arabia, Irans main adversary, despite concerns from even  Senate Republicans about the kingdoms de facto ruler, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. No other issue has been more telling of Mr. Pompeos support of the transactional nature of Mr. Trumps foreign policy.In October, following the crisis that erupted after Saudi agents  killed Jamal Khashoggi, a Virginia resident and Washington Post columnist, Mr. Trump sent Mr. Pompeo on an emergency trip to Saudi Arabia. Images of Mr. Pompeo smiling and shaking hands with Prince Mohammed ignited widespread criticism.After another visit in January with the prince, who is waging a catastrophic war in Yemen and whom the C.I.A. has concluded ordered Mr. Khashoggis murder, Mr. Pompeo told reporters accompanying him that the United States had a deep, longstanding relationship with Saudi Arabia.Thats who our partner is; thats who our strategically shared interest is with, he said.On Jan. 4, Mr. Pompeo appeared on a video screen in a room in Lima, Peru. He was speaking to officials from 13 nations who had gathered for a meeting of the Lima Group, formed in 2017 to address the economic crisis in Venezuela.They were weighing what actions to take against President Nicols Maduro, the authoritarian leader of Venezuela. The Canadian envoy was pressing for a declaration on the illegitimacy of Mr. Maduros government. Others were unsure.Mr. Pompeo delivered the same message he had made in person days earlier to leaders of Brazil and Colombia: Come up with a solid plan, and the United States will stand with you.That helped push the countries to issue a bold statement demanding that Mr. Maduro not start another term, said two people briefed on the discussions.Then a debate unfolded in the State Department over whether the United States should take the same step. Some officials recommended caution. But Mr. Pompeo chose to take a stronger approach, one person said, helping prompt the Trump administrations first overt attempt at regime change.On Jan. 23, Mr. Trump announced he recognized Juan Guaid, the National Assembly leader, as Venezuelas interim president.In those early weeks, diplomacy was a success for Mr. Pompeo.Either you stand with the forces of freedom or youre in league with Maduro and his mayhem, Mr. Pompeo said at a United Nations Security Council meeting. On Feb. 4, most of the European Unions members recognized Mr. Guaid.But Mr. Pompeos new special representative for Venezuela, Elliott Abrams, is known for a contentious history with Latin America that involves violence and what some call imperial overreach.And the Venezuelan military still supports Mr. Maduro. Since Friday, pro-Maduro forces have killed at least four civilians in clashes over American aid supplies.Mr. Pompeos diplomacy may have reached its limits. Roberta S. Jacobson, a former assistant secretary of state for Western Hemisphere Affairs, said Mr. Pompeo had failed to cultivate the deep international ties now required.He hasnt engaged in creating relationships and supporting the international institutions that you need when you want allies to be with you at a tough time, she said. Instead, we go it alone.An earlier version of a picture caption with this article misidentified the location of the demonstrators pictured. They were in Colombia, not Venezuela.An earlier version of this article misstated when Mike Pompeo assumed office as secretary of state. He took over the State Department in April of last year, not May.David Sanger reported from Warsaw, and Edward Wong from Washington.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning, and Happy New Year,President Trump has invited Democrats to a briefing at the White House today. Were also looking at a warning from North Koreas leader and the outlook for stocks after a rocky 2018. The Democratic Party takes control of the House this week, representing the first taste of a divided government, with the Senate and White House under Republican control. Representative Nancy Pelosi, who is likely to be elected speaker on Thursday, said her first order of business would be reopening the government, part of which has been shut for 12 days after a spending impasse over funding for a border wall. Ms. Pelosi has said the wall cant be part of any deal.President Trump has invited congressional leaders of both parties to a briefing on border security today. It would be Democratic leaders first visit to the White House since Dec. 11, when the president said he would be proud to shut down the government for border security.Yesterday: American border officers used tear gas to drive away about 150 migrants trying to cross the border from Mexico, the authorities said.The Daily: Todays episode discusses what Democrats plan to do with their new House majority.Kim Jong-un said on Tuesday that he was willing to hold a second summit meeting with President Trump, but he added that if international sanctions werent lifted, the North would have no choice but to return to nuclear confrontation.We will not make nuclear weapons and we will not proliferate nuclear weapons, Mr. Kim said during a New Years Day address. But he added that it wont be good if the U.S. doesnt make corresponding measures.News analysis: Mr. Kim has essentially returned to where things stood when Mr. Trump took office, indicating that their meeting in Singapore in June altered the optics of their relationship more than the reality. Read more from our national security correspondent.The former vice president is expected to reveal early this year whether he plans to make a third bid for the presidency.In the two years since leaving office, Mr. Biden has made millions of dollars through a book deal and selective speaking engagements. But by setting tight restrictions on such activities, he appears to be trying to prevent a backlash like the one Hillary Clinton experienced in 2016 for earning millions by speaking to private groups. Our reporters detailed the decisions that position Mr. Biden as a Democratic contender in 2020.Explainer: Yes, 2019 just started, but Democrats are already looking ahead to 2020. We look at the questions facing the party as it prepares to confront President Trump.Notable: Mitt Romney, the incoming senator from Utah and a former Republican presidential nominee, said in an op-ed essay in The Washington Post that Mr. Trump has not risen to the mantle of the office. Stocks suffered their worst annual decline in a decade last year, but the hope on Wall Street is that the U.S. economy is still sound.The S&P 500 ended 2018 down 14.5 percent from its high point, avoiding the 20 percent threshold that signals a bear market. Our reporters looked at some major factors that could affect the markets this year, including rising interest rates and President Trumps Twitter feed.Another angle: Trade talks between the U.S. and China are set to begin this week in Beijing. The American side is being led by Robert Lighthizer, a China skeptic who has said he wants to prevent Mr. Trump from making a quick, empty deal in order to calm the markets. Silicon Valley giants spent much of 2018 being accused of inflaming, radicalizing, dumbing down and squeezing the masses. Tech stocks have been pummeled. Even some tech executives are calling for regulation. But companies like Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Google arent flinching. Theyre expanding. (Apples new campus in Cupertino, Calif., is pictured above.)Slower withdrawal from Syria: President Trump will give the military about four months to pull 2,000 U.S. troops from Syria, after facing criticism for saying the departure would happen within 30 days.Chinese leaders warning to Taiwan: Armed force could be used to stop Taiwan from asserting independence, Xi Jinping said in his first major speech about the island. At the edge of the solar system: After a journey of more than four billion miles, NASAs New Horizons spacecraft reached a small, icy world nicknamed Ultima Thule (pronounced TOO-lee). Its the most distant object visited by humankind and may provide clues about the origin of the sun and planets.Cuomos new tone: Gov. Andrew Cuomo of New York was sworn in for his third term on Tuesday, in a ceremony on Ellis Island. He criticized the federal government, saying it had sought to demonize our differences and make our diversity our greatest weakness rather than our greatest strength.New leader in Brazil: Jair Bolsonaro officially became president on Tuesday, steering Latin Americas largest country to the far right. Brazilians were being freed from socialism, he said.Snapshot: Above, Serena Williams and Roger Federer faced off for the first time on Tuesday, in a mixed doubles match at the Hopman Cup in Australia. Federer and his partner, Belinda Bencic, beat Williams and Frances Tiafoe in an abbreviated format match by the score of 4-2, 4-3 (5-3).What were watching: This video from New York Magazine. Jerry Saltz, the magazines art critic and a recent Pulitzer Prize winner, presents Picassos painting Guernica to random passers-by in the subway, writes Dan Saltzstein, our editorial director of special projects. Delightful.Cook:  Chicken with sweet potatoes and fennel, mixed on a sheet pan and drizzled with a zingy vinaigrette of pecorino, cracked pepper and lemon.Listen: Classical music podcasts are hard to find. Aria Code is a new one from WQXR and the Metropolitan Opera, hosted by the musician Rhiannon Giddens. Our critic calls the deep dives into famous arias eminently listenable and often illuminating.Read: Our co-chief film critic Manohla Dargis explores how #MeToo influenced her work in the past year. Its not that Im noticing sexism more; I always noticed, she writes. Its that Im not gliding over the insults and insinuations, the snickering and unmotivated female nudity as easily  as resignedly  as I sometimes did.Watch: The director Rob Marshall breaks down a dazzling sequence mixing animation and live-action in Mary Poppins Returns. (And if you want more, check out our interview with Dick Van Dyke.)Smarter Living: Science can help you make all the changes you want to make in 2019. For instance, focus on an overarching intention (say, reducing stress) rather than a particular habit. That way, if meditation doesnt work out, you can move on to yoga or other correctives. We also have tips for saving time in the kitchen, so you can spend more at the table. The gig economy has been with us for years now, but the word gig long preceded it.The first definition of gig, meaning a flighty girl, goes back to the 13th century.The word is also present in fishing, where the use of a short-handled spear to catch small fish is called gig fishing. The spear  a gig  is thought to be derived from the defunct fizzgig, which eventually became fish-gig. Frogs can also be gigged.Early 20th-century jazz musicians popularized gig as a one-time engagement to play. That is the usage thought to have inspired the meaning of temporary (and often benefit-free) work.Some of us just use it to mean job. And with that, this reporter is off to her day gig to write about The Times crossword.Thats it for this briefing. See you next time. ChrisThank youTo Aisha Harris for the cultural guidance and Kenneth R. Rosen for the Smarter Living ideas. Deb Amlen, our Wordplay columnist, wrote todays Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S. Were listening to The Daily. Todays episode is about what the Democrats plan to do in the new Congress. Heres todays mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: The 2 percent in 2 percent milk (3 letters). You can find all our puzzles here.  The Timess science team created a timeline of space events that you can sync to your Google or iOS calendar. Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles aweekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Timess news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byPor Marina FrancoBuen da, bienvenido al boletn diario de The New York Times en Espaol. Si an no ests suscrito, puedes darte de alta en este enlace.Tienes sugerencias? Escrbenos a esta direccin. Una nueva caravana migrante parte de Honduras y aviva las tensiones. Un grupo de migrantes planea salir hoy desde Honduras rumbo a la frontera entre Mxico y Estados Unidos, siguiendo los pasos de la caravana que emprendi ese trayecto en octubre. Sin embargo, el nuevo grupo se enfrentar a las crecientes presiones del gobierno de Donald Trump, con medidas que han dejado varados en Tijuana a la mayora de los migrantes desde el ao pasado y que han llevado a los gobiernos guatemalteco y hondureo a endurecer sus intentos por frenar este tipo de caravanas.Los migrantes que logren avanzar hacia Mxico, cuyo nuevo gobierno ha prometido darles apoyo, muy probablemente se encontrarn con albergues improvisados ya repletos y una zona fronteriza con profundas tensiones. Negocian un nuevo bloque de pases que buscar ejercer presin sobre Venezuela. El gobierno colombiano de Ivn Duque anunci ayer que varios pases suramericanos estn en negociaciones para crear el bloque Prosur en sustitucin de la Unin de Naciones Suramericanas, ya que esta organizacin regional creada hace una dcada, dijo Duque, ha funcionado como ventrlocua de la dictadura de Venezuela. Los dilogos en torno al Prosur enfatizan el creciente rechazo en la regin al gobierno de Nicols Maduro, que fue formalmente desconocido por varios pases la semana pasada. Un gran paso para esclarecer el caso de los 43 estudiantes desaparecidos que conmocion a Mxico. Hoy ser instalada en el pas una figura indita: una comisin de la verdad para rehacer la investigacin del caso de 43 estudiantes de la escuela normal de Ayotzinapa que desaparecieron en septiembre de 2014 durante un operativo policial. La comisin haba sido exigida por los padres de los jvenes desaparecidos, por la sociedad civil y por un fallo judicial que el anterior gobierno intent rebatir; los funcionarios del actual gobierno han dicho que el tema ser prioridad. Desde antes de que se estableciera la comisin, un tribunal orden que esta indague si hay responsabilidad penal de agentes de la fiscala por las irregularidades en la investigacin anterior.El presidente de Estados Unidos se est comportando como un autcrata. [Por] su disposicin a fabricar crisis nacionales y trastocar los pesos y contrapesos constitucionales para evitar la derrota legislativa [...] parece incapaz de ejercer el poder ejecutivo de manera responsable.Los politlogos estadounidenses Steven Levitsky y Daniel Ziblatt analizan el historial de lderes como el peruano Alberto Fujimori o el turco Recep Tayyip Erdogan, que han aprovechado momentos de crisis reales o fabricados para impulsar su podero, y concluyen que Donald Trump est listo para sumarse a la lista de esos personajes debido a sus amenazas de declarar una emergencia con el fin de construir un muro fronterizo con Mxico.Es una nueva forma de representacin en Estados Unidos: a cien aos de la eleccin de la primera mujer al Congreso estadounidense, hoy hay 131 legisladoras en la Cmara de Representantes y en el Senado, el mayor nmero hasta ahora. The New York Times retrat a las polticas [en ingls] de la actual legislatura para mostrar la diversidad detrs de esa cifra, que incluye a la primera mujer musulmana, la primera legisladora abiertamente homosexual y la primera nativa americana. El hasto de los britnicos ante la falta de un acuerdo para el brexit. A menos de tres meses de que se concrete la salida del Reino Unido de la Unin Europea, an no hay un acuerdo sobre cmo sern las relaciones comerciales ni diplomticas, y la propuesta del gobierno de Theresa May no cuenta ni remotamente con el respaldo necesario para la votacin parlamentaria de hoy. Pese a la incertidumbre, dos aos y medio despus de un apretado referendo, la respuesta ms comn de los britnicos que han vivido la montaa rusa de negociaciones y tropiezos es... una encogida de hombros [en ingls]. Nos han mentido tantas veces, sabes?, dijo ayer, despreocupado, un residente del suburbio londinense Sunbury-on-Thames. Alertas por el asesinato de un alcalde liberal en Polonia. Pawel Adamowicz, alcalde de Gdansk, falleci ayer a los 53 aos despus de ser apualado [en ingls] durante un evento para recaudar fondos para hospitales; el responsable es un joven de 27 aos que critic al partido al que perteneca el alcalde. Ayer hubo vigilias en honor a Adamowicz, quien apoyaba los derechos de personas LGBT y era crtico de medidas antimigrantes del gobierno polaco; muchos se preguntan si el creciente extremismo poltico ha propagado la violencia de este tipo. La 5G ya est aqu (aplican condiciones y restricciones). La actualizacin de redes fue la mxima tendencia en la ltima edicin de la feria sobre tecnologa y dispositivos CES, pero qu es exactamente y cundo estar realmente disponible para la mayora de los usuarios de telfonos celulares? Aqu te lo explicamos.  El gran interrogante sobre los autos elctricos: La industria automotriz se apura para surtir a los consumidores del mundo que quieren depender menos de la gasolina algo que les vendra bien a los mexicanos en estos momentos, con nuevos modelos que sern presentados esta semana en la feria automotriz de Detroit. Sin embargo, pese a los nuevos modelos de empresas como Ford, Nissan, Hyundai o Audi, persiste un gran problema: la falta de estaciones para cargar los vehculos en caso de que el usuario necesite recorrer grandes distancias [en ingls]. El regreso de True Detective, un retorno familar. En la primera temporada de la aclamada serie de HBO se dijo que el tiempo es un crculo plano; en el estreno de la tercera temporada, el domingo, el pblico se encontr con un contexto algo similar: un detective que es cuestionado y busca recordar el caso misterioso que marc su carrera. El resumen del Times de los primeros dos episodios [en ingls] tiene todo lo que necesitas saber sobre el regreso de la serie y sus inspiraciones. El futuro de la animacin japonesa se reencuentra con su pasado. El cineasta Hayao Miyazaki inspir a generaciones con el Studio Ghibli y sus pelculas en 2D de gran profundidad, como El viaje de Chihiro o Mi vecino Totoro. Cuando anunci su retiro, varios animadores que haban trabajado con l se trasladaron a otros exitosos estudios [en ingls], pero ahora enfrentan una disyuntiva: ante el regreso de Miyazaki, qu deben hacer sus herederos? Los estilos de baile son propiedad intelectual? [en ingls] De ser as, qu pasa cuando se popularizan y son digitalizados para su uso en el mayor fenmeno actual del internet, el videojuego Fortnite? Nuevos casos legales en contra de Epic Games, creador de Fortnite, podran reconfigurar por completo la concepcin que tenemos de los pasos de baile.Nos ests leyendo en tu oficina? Pues provecho! Resulta que son cada vez ms las empresas que ofrecen alimentos gratis a sus empleados, una situacin que caus festejos y algo de envidia entre nuestros lectores.Es una excelente medida, los empleados sern mas productivos!, dijo Lucina Chacn. La estrategia de tratar bien a los empleados les ha dado muy buen resultado a las empresas ms triunfadoras, indic en Facebook Salvatore Ferro.Sin embargo, otros fueron crticos de que la medida promueva que los empleados no se alejen de su escritorio ni para comer, y otros se mostraron escpticos del men de algunas de las empresas, como Ben & Jerrys, que ofrece helado... mucho helado. Espero que el seguro que dan cubra diabetes y enfermedades coronarias, cncer y obesidad, opin un lector. Algunos ms bien expresaron inters: Me despediran por acaparar todo el helado, brome una lectora en Twitter.Gracias por leernos. Maana no te pierdas las mejores noticias cientficas y una seleccin de artculos especiales del Times.Tambin puedes compartir este boletn con tus amigos, familiares, seres queridos y no tan queridos. Se pueden registrar en este enlace.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning,We start with the latest news about the partial government shutdown, a crucial vote in Britains Parliament and todays confirmation hearing for the attorney general nominee.The president said on Monday that he had turned down a proposal by Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina to reopen the government for about three weeks to jump-start talks with Democrats.Mr. Trump also said he didnt want the impasse over $5.7 billion that he has demanded for a wall on the southwestern border to continue, but it wasnt clear what he saw as an alternative.Reaction: Polls show that a majority of Americans blame Mr. Trump and his party for the partial government shutdown, now in its fourth week. But among Republican voters, support for a wall is growing.The effects: The number of transportation security officers who arent showing up to work without pay keeps rising, leading to the closing of some airport checkpoints and longer wait times for travelers on Monday.From Opinion: Although the shutdown is painful, its a good time for T.S.A. workers to strike, two writers argue in an Op-Ed.Active-duty troops will most likely remain at the border with Mexico through September, the Defense Department said on Monday. About 5,900 troops were deployed there in October, as a caravan of Central American migrants made its way toward the U.S.The details: President Trump has said that a wall is necessary to stem a tide of migrants and drugs. We looked at the numbers he cites when describing the situation as a crisis.Closer look: Two Times journalists are filing occasional dispatches as they travel the length of the 2,000-mile border.Lawmakers are widely expected today to reject Prime Minister Theresa Mays plan to lead the country out of the European Union. A particularly severe loss could threaten Mrs. Mays government or even, she warned on Monday, the entire project. Britain is scheduled to leave the bloc on March 29, and most experts predict that a no-deal departure would be chaotic and economically damaging. We have live coverage leading up to the vote tonight in London.Whats next: If the measure fails, Mrs. May will face a range of possibilities, including quickly devising a backup plan or calling a second referendum.Reaction: Theres an idea that well all be all right in the end, a political-science professor said. Well, we may not.Representative Steve King, Republican of Iowa, was stripped of two House committee seats on Monday, after he questioned why white supremacy is considered offensive.In an interview with The Times published last week, Mr. King said: White nationalist, white supremacist, Western civilization  how did that language become offensive?Mr. King has a long history of making racist remarks and insults about immigrants, and, with furor building, Republican leaders denounced him on Monday. The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, suggested that Mr. King find another line of work.Response: Mr. King released a statement saying his comments had been misunderstood and that he would serve his district for at least the next two years.Just over a century ago, Jeannette Rankin of Montana won a seat in the House of Representatives, becoming the first American woman elected to federal office.One has become 131  the number of women serving in both chambers of Congress as of this month. The Times photographed nearly all of them.Citizenship question rejected: A federal judge blocked the Trump administration from asking about citizenship in the 2020 census. The case will most likely reach the Supreme Court.Attorney general nominee: Confirmation hearingsfor William Barr, President Trumps nominee for attorney genera are todayl. Follow our live coverage.  On Monday, Mr. Barr said he would allow the special counsel to continue his investigation into Russian election interference.President Trump and NATO: Mr. Trump privately said several times last year that he wanted to withdraw the U.S. from the 70-year-old military alliance with Europe and Canada.Wisconsin kidnapping plot: The suspect who has been charged with killing a couple and abducting their 13-year-old daughter, Jayme Closs, in October began planning the crime after a chance encounter, according to court documents.Inauguration spending: Private donors gave more than $100 million for President Trumps inauguration two years ago, including $10,000 for makeup. Previously unreported details of the spending come as the inauguration committee faces legal scrutiny.Snapshot: Above, President Trump welcomed college footballs national champions, the Clemson Tigers, to the White House on Monday with a range of fast-food offerings. The press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, attributed the menu to the shutdown, as some White House employees have been furloughed.In memoriam: Carol Channing, a larger-than-life Broadway star, was known for her performances in Gentlemen Prefer Blondes and Hello, Dolly! She died today at 97.Late-night comedy: The comedy hosts were unsurprised by the news that the F.B.I. was worried that President Trump might be secretly working for Russia. I think thats ridiculous, Stephen Colbert said. Theres nothing secret about it.What were listening to: This episode of This American Life. Remy Tumin, who writes our Evening Briefing, says it captured the magic of libraries. As one librarian notes, Its one of the last places you can go that you dont have to buy or believe in anything to come in. Cook: Try a tomato-free take on pasta puttanesca, with garlic, anchovies, capers and tuna. (And sign up for Five Weeknight Dishes for more recipes in your inbox.)Watch: Watch Felicity Jones play a young Ruth Bader Ginsburg in a scene from On the Basis of Sex narrated by the films director.Listen: Jon Caramanica and guests discuss the Puerto Rican superstar Bad Bunny on the latest Popcast, our pop music teams podcast.Go: The Infinite Love Party in Brooklyn is billed as a sex-positive celebration of queer people, people of color and their allies. Smarter Living: You can train your memory by connecting numbers to letters that can transform to sounds, sentences and images. (Memorization champions use such systems to break world records.) But remembering names simply requires paying attention and then using the name immediately. The most useful trick isnt a trick at all, observed a memory champion. Its focus.And our Smarter Living editor, Tim Herrera, had a relevant conversation about focusing with the author Cal Newport.Today is the 10th anniversary of a miracle.On Jan. 15, 2009, Capt. Chesley Sullenberger safely ditched his US Airways Airbus A320 in the Hudson River after striking a flock of geese while taking off from New York City.But the so-called Miracle on the Hudson hardly stands alone.In 1982, a British Airways crew glided its Boeing 747 down when volcanic ash clogged all four engines.A Taca pilot landed near New Orleans when his Boeing 737s engines flamed out in a storm in 1988.And a DHL crew survived a missile strike.Soon after taking off on a cargo flight from Baghdad to Bahrain on Nov. 22, 2003, their Airbus A300 was hit by a surface-to-air missile launched by Iraqi insurgents. The damage made its flight controls inoperable.Using only the engines to control the planes direction and altitude, the crew headed back to the airport and landed their aircraft (mostly) on the runway.Wheres their Tom Hanks movie?Thats it for this briefing. (By the way, the egg now has more Instagram likes than the population of Canada.)See you next time. ChrisThank youTo Eleanor Stanford for the wide-ranging cultural guidance and James K. Williamson for the scientific Smarter Living tips. Zach Wichter wrote todays Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S. Were listening to The Daily. In todays episode, a Times reporter who covers the Justice Department discusses William Barr. The Times is introducing several audio features for devices enabled with Amazons Alexa, including a news briefing hosted by Michael Barbaro of The Daily. Heres todays mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Vegan protein source (4 letters). You can find all our puzzles here.Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles aweekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Timess news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byStudent OpinionBy Jeremy Engle and Katherine SchultenPresident Trump delivered his second State of the Union address on Tuesday night. The speech was scheduled for last month, but was postponed because of the partial government shutdown, prompted by Mr. Trumps demand that Congress pay for a wall along the southern border with Mexico.Were you watching? Why or why not?Though we welcome your reactions to what the president said  and to the Democratic response  in this forum were chiefly asking how you think our country is doing right now.Are we better off than we were a year ago? Two years ago? Why or why not? What are the main issues we face, in your opinion? In general, how strong is the state of our union right now?In Trump Asks for Unity, but Presses Hard Line on Immigration, The Times summarizes the speech and the reaction to it:President Trump delivered a message of bipartisan unity on Tuesday night in his first address to Congress in the new era of divided government, but signaled that he would continue to wage war for the hard-line immigration policies that have polarized the capital and the nation.In a nationally televised speech that toggled between conciliation and confrontation, Mr. Trump presented himself as a leader who could work across party lines even as he pressed lawmakers to build a wall along the nations southwestern border that leaders of the newly empowered congressional Democrats have adamantly rejected....The change in the power structure in a Capitol long dominated by men was on display as Ms. Pelosi and scores of House Democratic women wore white, the color of the suffrage movement, reflecting the fact that 131 women were sworn into the new Congress, the most in American history.When Mr. Trump noted this breakthrough, the women leapt to their feet, cheering, dancing and high-fiving each other. Thats really great, he said. Congratulations.He made no direct mention of the issues that may yet come to dominate the year, such as the Russia investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, or the parallel inquiries that House Democrats intend to conduct into his campaigns ties with Russia and efforts to impede investigations.Instead, he alluded to them only in passing, but pointedly. An economic miracle is taking place in the United States, he said, and the only thing that can stop it are foolish wars, politics or ridiculous partisan investigations.But Mr. Trump indicated no retreat from his almost singular pursuit of a border wall, directly taking on Ms. Pelosi, who has called it immoral. He devoted 15 minutes of the hour-and-22-minute speech to immigration with no concession to Democratic priorities like a path to citizenship for immigrants brought into the country illegally as children.This is a moral issue, Mr. Trump said as Ms. Pelosi sat unmoved behind him. No issue better illustrates the divide between Americas working class and Americas political class than illegal immigration, he added. Wealthy politicians and donors push for open borders while living their lives behind walls and gates and guards.In the official Democratic response, Stacey Abrams, who lost a close race for governor of Georgia in November, scorned the idea of unity from a president who has practiced the politics of division. We know bipartisanship could craft a 21st-century immigration plan, she said, but this administration chooses to cage children and tear families apart.Ms. Abrams, who is African-American, challenged Mr. Trumps history of racial provocation, saying, We must hold everyone from the highest offices to our families accountable for racist words and deeds and call racism what it is  wrong.The presidents speech, built on a theme of choosing greatness, came at a pivotal moment halfway through the presidents term as he seeks to regain momentum after the midterm election defeat that handed control of the House to Democrats and after his failed effort to use a partial government shutdown to extract money for the wall.Students, please tell us: Is the state of our union strong, in your opinion? In other words, how do you think the country is doing right now? Are we doing better, worse or the same as we were a year ago? What should be the nations priorities? What are the biggest issues we face? For instance, do you agree with President Trumps focus on immigration and the need for a border wall? What is your reaction to President Trumps State of the Union address? What, to you, were the most memorable moments or lines? How effective do you think it was over all? What reactions to the address  whether from political commentators, members of Congress, social media or your friends and family  did you find most interesting? Why? Which descriptions of the state of our union that you have heard or read this week do you find most compelling or persuasive? Why? If you were to make your own one-minute State of the Union speech, what would you say? Why? What issues, policies, ideas or themes would you highlight?Further Resources:For more background and context, students might watch this Times video of President Barack Obamas final State of the Union address, from January 2016, and this video of Mr. Trumps first State of the Union address in January 2018. And you can follow along via this page for all Times coverage on the State of the Union address.Or, check out our 2013 lesson plan Assessing the Address: State of the Union Lesson Ideas.Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Zolan Kanno-Youngs and Michael D. ShearWASHINGTON  Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, on Wednesday tersely defended a now-defunct Trump administration practice of separating migrant children from their families at the border, sidestepping whether she supported it as a way to deter illegal immigration.In tense exchanges with House Democrats, Ms. Nielsen instead implored Congress to confront what she called a humanitarian catastrophe on the southern border by changing laws to crack down on illegal border crossings.She also said the Trump administrations family separation practice was similar to those of previous presidents  even if only sporadically enforced in earlier cases.It was a policy by this administration that only ended when there were pictures of little kids in cages that had been ripped away from their parents, Representative Kathleen Rice, Democrat of New York, told Ms. Nielsen during a hearing of the House Homeland Security Committee.[Update: Kirstjen Nielsen out as Trumps homeland security secretary.]Ms. Nielsen replied that Ms. Rice mischaracterized the administrations enforcement.Thats a policy, Ms. Rice said. You should admit it.Ms. Nielsen noted that parents are generally separated from their children when they go to jail for illegal activities. But that wasnt the point of the immigration policy, she said.The point was to increase prosecutions for those breaking the law, she added.[Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]The hearing was Ms. Nielsens first since Democrats took control of the House this year. She backed President Trumps request to declare a national emergency at the border  which would give him access to funding to build a border wall  and cited new data from her department showing that the number of immigrants entering the United States illegally had doubled from a year ago.Immigration officials are on track to apprehend one million people crossing the southern border this year, Ms. Nielsen said.This is not a manufactured crisis, Ms. Nielsen said. This is truly an emergency.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, later accused Democrats of refusing to acknowledge a crisis at the border. She also chastised Senate Republicans who did not support the presidents emergency declaration.If you had done what you were elected to do on the front end, then the president would not have to fix the problem on his own through a national emergency, Ms. Sanders said.Some Republicans at the House hearing said they supported building a wall along the border.Representative Daniel Crenshaw, Republican of Texas, acknowledged the concerns about family separations but said physical barriers were crucial to securing the long stretches of land between ports of entry.Mr. Crenshaw said he now doubted that we all value the rule of law and value the ability to manage our border effectively  a view he admitted was cynical.The Department of Homeland Security has opened three investigations into the Trump administrations immigration policies, the agencys acting inspector general, John V. Kelly, said in a separate hearing on Wednesday.Mr. Kelly said one investigation is looking into the departments systems for tracking migrant children separated from their families; another is examining whether asylum-seeking families are being separated at the border.Department investigators were also reviewing whether parents facing deportation were given the option of bringing their children back home with them. In the hearing with Ms. Nielsen, Ms. Rice asked whether every relative facing deportation was, in fact, allowed to do so.To the best of my knowledge, every parent was afforded that option, Ms. Nielsen said.In the past, most undocumented immigrants entering the United States from Mexico were single men looking for work. But over the past year, the number of migrants traveling together as a family has soared  a point that Ms. Nielsen sought to underscore.Officials have said migrants  and the smugglers who exploit them  know they are unlikely to be detained if they travel with a child.Under a court order, the government is prohibited from keeping children in holding facilities at the border for more than 72 hours. Children must either be transferred to immigration detention facilities suitable for minors, or be released.The government has allowed thousands of detained migrants to go free each week because it lacks enough beds to hold them in family detention facilities. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, a branch of Ms. Nielsens department, can accommodate only 3,326 parents and children in its three residential family centers.Democrats also criticized Ms. Nielsen for not adequately keeping track of migrant children who were separated from their parents last year.You let kids be separated without tracking them. Do you know how outrageous that is, Madam Secretary? said Representative Nanette Barragn, Democrat of California. You have no feeling, no compassion, no empathy here.Ms. Nielsen did not respond.The practice, part of a zero tolerance immigration policy that drew swift condemnation after it was publicly announced last spring, quickly became a symbol of the presidents crackdown on illegal immigration. At the time, Ms. Nielsen repeatedly denied that her department had a policy of routinely separating migrant children from their parents at the border, despite mounting evidence that thousands of families had been broken apart.During a news conference in June at the White House, she said she was offended by accusations that she would authorize separating children from their parents to send a message of deterrence. But the department continued to separate families until Mr. Trump, facing enormous public pressure, signed an executive order meant to end the policy.Representative Bennie Thompson, Democrat of Mississippi and the committees chairman, said he had requested documents on the treatment of asylum seekers at the border and family separations. After Wednesdays hearing, Mr. Thompson told reporters that he expected that information within a week and was prepared to use subpoena powers as a last resort.The secretary can choose whether to be complicit in this administrations misinformation campaign, Mr. Thompson said, or she can correct the record.For much of her tenure, Ms. Nielsen has been the subject of Mr. Trumps ire over illegal immigration and border security.Mr. Trump berated her privately for not doing enough to stop illegal immigration and accelerate construction of a wall along the border with Mexico. The president grew repeatedly angry with Ms. Nielsen for telling him that his ideas to stop immigration would be illegal or improper.By years end, reports were rampant that Mr. Trump wanted to fire Ms. Nielsen, but her credibility with the president has since improved. During the governments 35-day shutdown over funding for the presidents border wall, Ms. Nielsen was a fierce advocate for the wall.And on Wednesday morning, Ms. Nielsen made clear she would not stray far from the presidents anti-immigrant language.We face a crisis  a real, serious and sustained crisis at our borders, Ms. Nielsen said.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byA winner-take-all system within states can produce results counter to the majority for no high-minded reason.By Nate CohnThe debate over the Electoral College this week is familiar, but off point. Set off by criticism from Senator Elizabeth Warren, the discussion has often focused on the systems real but minor bias toward small states, and the systems intended (by the founders) but now entirely ineffectual role in preventing the tyranny of direct democracy. It largely misses the real reason the Electoral College so often produces results counter to the majority: The winner takes all within most states. You get all of Michigans electoral votes whether you win by one vote or a million votes. There are legitimate arguments to keep the present winner-take-all system, even arguments that todays progressive opponents of the Electoral College could appreciate. In the 1880s, for instance, it limited the electoral gains that white supremacist Democrats reaped by disenfranchising black voters. But the Electoral College also brings the risk of anti-majority outcomes  in which the winner of the national popular vote loses the election  for no high-minded reasons at all, as occurred in 2000 and 2016. It even has the potential to worsen the kind of crises it was intended to prevent. If theres any argument over the Electoral College that seems to inflame passions on Twitter, its about its bias toward small states. States are awarded electoral votes based on the number of representatives in the United States House, which is essentially proportionate to a states population, and on the number of senators, which is not. So California gets two electoral votes from its two senators, and much smaller Wyoming also gets two votes from its two senators. Over all, 81 percent of electors are awarded by population, and 19 percent are awarded equally among the states and the District of Columbia.There are circumstances in which this modest bias can prove decisive: a near Electoral College tie, as in 2000. After falling short in Florida, Al Gore lost to George W. Bush by five electoral votes, less than the net 18 votes Mr. Bush gained from small-state bias. But for perspective, thats the only Electoral College outcome since 1876 that was within the 20 or so electoral-vote margin for the small-state bias to matter. The Electoral Colleges small-state bias had essentially nothing to do with Donald J. Trumps victory. In fact, he won seven of the 10 largest states, and Hillary Clinton won seven of the 12 smallest states. Over all, the Electoral Colleges bias toward small states probably cost her a net of four votes  essentially nothing. If there is a benefit to protecting small states, the Electoral College is not doing a great job of providing it. Big states can dominate small ones under the system, and they have done so at times. The true quirkiness of the Electoral College comes from how states award their votes, not how many votes each state has: Its (largely) winner-take-all. This is the feature that defines the character of American presidential elections. A candidate who narrowly wins the tipping-point states will win the presidency, regardless of the margin of victory in the rest of the country. That means theres no incentive for candidates to campaign in any noncompetitive state, whether its a populous one like California or the opposite, like North Dakota.The winner-take-all bias that elevates the battleground states overruns all of the other biases. If the big states were close and competitive, the big states would decide our elections  as they did until fairly recently. In 1888, another time there was a split between the popular vote and the Electoral College, the candidate who prevailed (Benjamin Harrison) swept the nations largest states  including its largest, New York, by one percentage point. Whats so interesting is that this defining feature is largely unintended. Its not specified in the Constitution. Most states didnt award their electors on a winner-take-all basis in the first presidential elections, and even today there are two states that do not: Nebraska and Maine, which award some electoral votes by congressional district. If states chose to, they could devise an electoral system that better reflected the popular vote. They could award their electors in proportion to the statewide popular vote, or to the winner of the national popular vote, as some states have sought to do through an interstate compact. No states have moved to do this on their own, for the same reason they drifted to winner-take-all in the first place: Anything else dilutes their power and takes votes away from their favored candidates. The winner-take-all system has essentially nothing to do with the reasons the founders created the Electoral College, like their concern about investing the masses with the power to pick the president. All of the states now award their electoral votes based on the votes of citizens, rather than on the votes of the state legislatures, as many once did. Just because the winner-take-all system is unintended doesnt mean there isnt an argument for it. The main, principled argument for it is that it discourages regionalism and encourages a candidate to appeal broadly throughout the country, rather than to a single region. Although this doesnt always work, it sometimes does. The 1888 election again offers a useful example. That year, Democrats won the popular vote by disenfranchising Republican black voters and running up the score in the Deep South, where they won by 70 percent to 26 percent. Republicans overcame that with some narrow victories in big states and more victories over all.Republicans make a similar claim today about the 2016 election: They argue that Democrats won the popular vote because of their big margin in California, and that the Electoral College properly protected the rest of the country against an imperial California or New York. But that is not what happened. Mr. Trumps victory in the Electoral College was mainly because of impressive strength in the traditional battlegrounds, not lopsided and inefficient Democratic strength in their regional bastions. Indeed, Mr. Trump did just as well in his base states   call them Appalachafornia  as Mrs. Clinton did in California. Mr. Trumps electoral victory was a product of two factors. One was essentially an accident of state lines. The 2016 results could be flipped just by giving the Florida Panhandle to Alabama and the Upper Peninsula of Michigan to Wisconsin. Its not clear that there was anything about the distribution of Mrs. Clintons support that inevitably put it at a disadvantage in a winner-take-all system. The second is that the traditional battlegrounds are whiter and less educated than the country as a whole. Mrs. Clintons gains came in well-educated and diverse states that tend to be less competitive, including red states like Arizona, Texas and Utah.If these trends continue, its possible that the dynamics of the 2016 election could reverse themselves. Additional Republican gains among white working-class voters could go largely unrewarded, now that theyve flipped nearly all of the mostly white battlegrounds. One day, Democratic gains in the Sun Belt might flip states like Texas, Georgia and Arizona. America today is not as divided as it was before the Civil War or after. But even if the Electoral College is supposed to discourage regionalism, it can do little to erode it once it takes hold, since it offers no incentive for a candidate to appeal to a place he or she cant win. In fact, there is no reason that Mr. Trump, who has complained about how he did in California, needs to put his name on the ballot there at all. Nate Cohn is a domestic correspondent for The Upshot. He covers elections, polling and demographics. Before joining The Times in 2013, he worked as a staff writer for The New Republic.  @Nate_Cohn Advertisement"
Paul Manaforts Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dads Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: Coal Mining Isnt Coming BackHouse Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab SpringCan The President Be Impeached? We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season
"The Commerce Department is considering national security restrictions on artificial intelligence. Some worry they could stunt the industry in the U.S.CreditCreditChris KoehlerSupported byBy Cade MetzSAN FRANCISCO  A common belief among tech industry insiders is that Silicon Valley has dominated the internet because much of the worldwide network was designed and built by Americans.Now a growing number of those insiders are worried that proposed export restrictions could short-circuit the pre-eminence of American companies in the next big thing to hit their industry, artificial intelligence.In November, the Commerce Department released a list of technologies, including artificial intelligence, that are under consideration for new export rules because of their importance to national security.Technology experts worry that blocking the export of A.I. to other countries, or tying it up in red tape, will help A.I. industries flourish in those nations  China, in particular  and compete with American companies.The number of cases where exports can be sufficiently controlled are very, very, very small, and the chance of making an error is quite large, said Jack Clark, head of policy at OpenAI, an artificial intelligence lab in San Francisco. If this goes wrong, it could do real damage to the A.I. community.The export controls are being considered as the United States and China engage in a trade war. The Trump administration has been critical of the way China negotiates deals with American companies, often requiring the transfer of technology to Chinese partners as the cost of doing business in the country. And federal officials are making an aggressive argument that China has stolen American technology through hacking and industrial espionage.Tech companies, academics and policymakers are calling on the Commerce Department to take a light hand with A.I. export rules ahead of a Jan. 10 deadline for public comment. Their argument has three main points: Restrictions could harm companies in the United States and help international competitors. They could stifle technology improvements. And they may not make much of a difference.In August, Congress passed the Export Controls Act of 2018, which added export restrictions to emerging and foundational technologies. In mid-November, the Commerce Department, tasked with overseeing the restrictions, published a list of technologies for consideration, including several categories of A.I. like computer vision, speech recognition and natural language understanding.The restrictions would affect the export of technology to certain countries. Though it does not specify which ones, the Commerce Department proposal points to countries that have faced trade and arms embargoes in the past. Those include China, Russia and Iran.The Commerce Department declined to comment on the proposed restrictions. After taking public comments, the department will draft a formal plan. It could result in anything from new licensing rules for A.I. exports to outright bans.Artificial intelligence could be as vital to the tech industry as the World Wide Web was 25 years ago.It is easy to forget that before the mid-1990s, the tech industry in the United States was in a slump and the consumer electronics giants of Japan looked unbeatable. That changed as Silicon Valley companies popularized innovations like the web browser and e-commerce. Today, the likes of Google, Apple and Facebook dominate tech all over the world.But American dominion in artificial intelligence is far from guaranteed. China is investing billions in A.I. for both commercial and military use. And the expertise that has flooded to Silicon Valley over the years is starting to stay home, partly because of immigration restrictions. Centers for A.I. research are popping up all over the world, from Toronto to Cambridge, England, and Beijing.Enforcing export controls on artificial intelligence would present an unusual challenge for regulators.A.I. is something policymakers call a dual-use technology. It has innocuous commercial applications, like helping to steer your car or ask your phone a question. It also has important military uses, like helping a weaponized drone find its targets.Defense planners believe A.I. represents the next notable change in military weapons, akin to the tactical targeting of so-called smart bombs a generation ago or nuclear weapons before that. A.I. can also aid surveillance systems and even disinformation campaigns through software that can produce fake photos and videos.But trying to draw a line between what is military and what is commercial is exceedingly difficult, said R. David Edelman, a technology policy researcher at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. It may be impossible.It is difficult to put a made in America label on artificial intelligence. Research on the technology is often done collaboratively by scientists and engineers all over the world.Companies rarely hold on to the details of their A.I. work, as if it were a secret recipe. Instead, they share what they learn, in hopes that other researchers can build on it. One companys breakthrough is often the latest iteration of what many researchers at private companies and universities have been working on.A lot of the computer code for A.I. is published on sites like Arxiv.org, a repository of academic and corporate research. So, many policy experts believe that if the United States restricts the export of A.I. products and services, it will have little effect on the progress of A.I. in China and other countries.The core of these technologies is international and freely available, said Mr. Edelman, who was a special assistant for economic and technology policy under President Barack Obama. No country  the U.S. or China  has a monopoly on that.Federal regulations exempt publicly available information from export control. That means that the government is unlikely to bar companies and universities from publishing fundamental A.I. research. But it could establish controls that restrict foreign access to that information, said Greg Jaeger, a lawyer at the law firm Stroock & Stroock & Lavan who deals with export controls.The Commerce Department could also restrict the export of cloud-computing technology and computer chips related to artificial intelligence. The export restrictions memo mentions both.Amazon and Microsoft already operate cloud computing businesses in China through local partners, and Google has long hoped to do the same thing. Amazon, Google and Microsoft declined to comment.Overly restrictive rules that prevent foreign nationals from working on certain technologies in the United States could also push researchers and companies into other countries.It might be easier for people to just do this stuff in Europe, said Jason Waite, a lawyer with the firm Alston & Bird who specializes in international trade.Follow Cade Metz on Twitter: @CadeMetzAdvertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe Oscars, a new history of Northern Ireland, Isaac Mizrahi and more.We take the weekend to highlight some of the recent books coverage in The Times:This week, the author Meg Wolitzer writes about the experience of seeing one of her characters come to life on the screen. Her novel The Wife is the basis of an Oscar-nominated film of the same name, with Glenn Close playing the lead role. As Wolitzer puts it, As soon as I saw the face of this actress, I felt as if I were watching a home movie I hadnt known existed. We put together a reading guide inspired by many of the nominated movies and a list of books for film buffs and novices alike.Gal Beckerman, an editor at the Book Review, reviews two new books that explore the benefits of tuning out: How to Disappear, by Akiko Busch, and Silence, by Jane Brox.Beckerman also appears on the Book Reviews podcast this week to discuss those two books. And Steve Luxenberg talks about Separate: The Story of Plessy v. Ferguson, and Americas Journey From Slavery to Segregation.The iconic illustrator and artist, whose books never shied away from introducing children to the darker sides of life, died earlier this month at 87. Our childrens books editor, Maria Russo, writes: Theres nothing out there like Ungerers books any more. Maybe thats because no one else is willing to pull the mask back on the grown-ups  their wars, their lies, their needless aggressions  with quite as much gleeful honesty.For me literature is most effective when its sort of plain, the fashion designer and author Isaac Mizrahi says in this weeks By the Book. Style is suspicious to me in general. I think thats true about my taste in everything. Food. Dcor. Clothes.In Say Nothing: A True Story of Murder and Memory in Northern Ireland, the journalist Patrick Radden Keefe uses the 1972 abduction of a Belfast mother of 10 to tell the story of the Troubles. The Timess critic Jennifer Szalai calls the book resolutely humane and meticulously reported. The Irish novelist Roddy Doyle says that Keefes book has lots of the qualities of good fiction.Dwight Garner reviews the former F.B.I. deputy director Andrew McCabes memoir, The Threat: How the F.B.I. Protects America in the Age of Terror and Trump. McCabe was fired last year. He may have been driven out of Dodge,"" Garner writes, but he has returned with a memoir thats better than any book typed this quickly has a right to be.Parul Sehgal considers Wayward Lives, Beautiful Experiments, by Saidiya Hartman, an exhilarating social history about young black women in the early 20th century who tossed out the narrow scripts about intimacy they had been given. And Janet Maslin loves The Border, the final volume of Don Winslows Cartel trilogy, writing: Winslow means to journey deep into a new kind of hell this time, and to suggest that his readers recognize the sensation. This is a book for dark, rudderless times, an immersion into fear and chaos.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Ashley Calloway-Blatch and Lance BoothGood morning. Here are the weeks top stories, and a look ahead.1. The partial government shutdown is entering its third week.Negotiations between Vice President Mike Pence and congressional aides from both parties yielded little progress on Saturday. The two sides are scheduled to meet again this afternoon, but there is little reason to believe that President Trumps demand for more than $5 billion for a wall at the southern border will be met anytime soon.The presidents fixation on a border wall, a favorite talking point since his campaign, has left him in a political box of his own making, our reporters write in a news analysis.If the partial shutdown continues a week longer, it will officially be the longest in U.S. history. Heres a look at what is and isnt affected by the shutdown.The government will remain partly shuttered until at least Tuesday, because both chambers of Congress are adjourned until then.Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And heres the front page of our Sunday paper, the Sunday Review from Opinion, and our crossword puzzles.____2. The shutdown has lasted a full pay cycle for the 800,000 federal employees who are not working or working without pay. Heres what the shutdown would look like if it happened in other industries.The workers affected range from people earning $100,000 a year to those making a quarter of that. Many are frustrated with the impasse. They have to realize that this affects everyday people, said a corrections officer at a federal prison in Florida.Native American tribes are also being hit hard by the shutdown. Their treaties with the U.S. government guarantee funding for services like health care and education, and the work is often done by tribal employees whose salaries rely on federal money, or by federal workers, some of whom are tribal citizens. Above, a patient at the Sault Tribe Health and Human Services in Sault Ste. Marie, Mich.___3. The stalemate over the border wall is an early test of the new political dynamic in Washington, where Democrats have just taken control of the House for the first time in eight years.While Democrats capitulated on an immigration issue just a few days into a shutdown early last year, they are looking at a more favorable Senate map in 2020, and do not seem to think theres as much political risk in standing firm against President Trump.Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, above, was elected speaker of the House on Thursday, making her second in line to the presidency after Vice President Mike Pence. We followed her rise from the well-mannered daughter of a Baltimore mayor to the highest-ranking woman in American political history.___4. The 2020 primary competition is underway, with Senator Elizabeth Warren now in the race and several other women likely to be contenders. Despite the so-called Year of the Woman and the midterm gains that followed, theres a lingering worry among some Democrats about the risks of nominating a woman to take on President Trump. Above, Ms. Warren, the senator from Massachusetts, in Iowa.The Democratic primary is expected to draw an unusually large number of candidates. Our political correspondents look at who is likely to run and how timing changes everything.One potential candidate, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, is now dealing with accusations that women working on his 2016 presidential campaign were sexually harassed and paid less than men.____5. Investors received good news on Friday: The Labor Department reported one of the strongest months of job gains in a decade, with employers adding 312,000 jobs in December. And wages, which for months only inched up, have begun to increase more quickly.Stocks rose after the Labor Department announcement, and picked up even more after Jerome H. Powell, the Federal Reserve chairman, acknowledged the markets concerns about rising interest rates and said the Fed would remain flexible in the face of market turbulence and signs that the global economy is slowing.____6. His family says he is a Marine Corps veteran who was in Moscow to attend a wedding. The Russian authorities have accused him of being a spy.Whatever the truth, Paul Whelan, 48, above, an American arrested in Russia last month, has become the latest pawn between Russia and the U.S. as rising tensions recall the Cold War years.Mr. Whelan also has British, Canadian and Irish citizenship, officials said Friday. Former American officials said Russia might have miscalculated by picking a fight not just with the U.S., but with a larger part of the international community.____7. For the first time in 16 years, Apple reduced its revenue expectations, citing poor iPhone sales in China. It was the clearest confirmation yet that the Chinese economy is in serious trouble. Apple is a bellwether, said a chief economist at Moodys Analytics.Elsewhere in the business world, Tesla reported a record quarter on Wednesday and announced it was cutting prices of all models by $2,000. Investors responded with a sell-off.And driverless cars in Arizona are under literal attack by residents who, for a variety of reasons, dont want the vehicles roaming around their neighborhoods.____8. China opened a new chapter in space exploration on Thursday, landing a vehicle on the far side of the moon for the first time in history, the countrys space agency announced. Above, an image taken by the rover, called Change-4 after the moon goddess in Chinese mythology.Earlier in the week, NASAs New Horizons spacecraft made its flyby of the most distant object ever visited: a small, icy world nicknamed Ultima Thule. The team will have to wait 20 months for all of the spacecrafts data and images to return to Earth, but heres what we know  and have seen  so far.____9. When someone commits a crime, the police in New York City can have a victim or witness scroll through hundreds of mug shots matching the perpetrators description, in hopes the culprit is among them.But these open-ended photo searches can increase the likelihood of ensnaring an innocent person, and many other large police departments say they dont rely on the technique.St. Clair Steward, above, was jailed for more than two months after a victim picked him from his mug shot, the 31st that he was shown. His case was dismissed after a DNA sample from the crime scene did not match his.____10. Finally, if one of your New Years resolutions is to read more amazing journalism, dont miss our Best Weekend Reads.This week, we hear how women over 50 are making new friends, catch up with our 52 Places writer after a year of almost nonstop travel, and look at the rise and fall of Carlos Ghosn, the ousted Nissan executive.You can also check out The Carpetbaggers predictions for which movies will win at the Golden Globes tonight.Have a glittering week.Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byOn Pro FootballBy Ken BelsonRoger Goodell began his tenure as commissioner of the N.F.L. in 2006 declaring that disciplining the leagues 2,000 players for their transgressions would be a priority. True to his word, the number of suspensions and fines rose, and it remains high relative to what it was.Disciplining owners, though, has been more complicated. As with players, the N.F.L. constitution gives the league commissioner broad authority to penalize owners for conduct detrimental to the welfare of the League or professional football.But while the players essentially work for Goodell, and have little leverage to influence his decisions, Goodell works for the owners, and those owners include Robert K. Kraft of the Super Bowl champion New England Patriots.Kraft, 77, was charged on Friday with two counts of soliciting sex as part of a wide-ranging investigation into prostitution and human trafficking in Florida. The police in Jupiter, Fla., used video surveillance that showed Kraft inside a massage parlor that, the police said, was used for selling sex.In a statement, the Patriots categorically deny that Mr. Kraft engaged in any illegal activity.However the case is resolved, the episode is an embarrassment to a league that likes to portray itself as a pillar of moral rectitude but that has struggled to shake an image that its players, employees and owners treat women poorly.The league has been rocked by a host of domestic violence scandals. Cheerleaders have detailed how they were exploited by their teams. Last year, Jerry Richardson, the former owner of the Carolina Panthers, was fined $2.75 million after an investigation confirmed claims that for years he sexually harassed employees.Now this.If Kraft is found to have committed a crime, even a misdemeanor, Goodell will be under pressure to penalize him to compensate for the embarrassment the league has suffered. How he treats the matter will provide an illustration of the dynamics of power at the highest ranks of the league and show the lengths he will go to appear to treat players and owners equally before the expiration of the current labor deal two years from now.Kraft may be the leagues most successful owner: His franchise has won six Super Bowl titles since the 2001 season. As a key figure in negotiating labor deals and broadcast contracts, he may also be the leagues most powerful one. He is also a confidant of the commissioner, close with the leaders of the leagues media partners and the leagues go-between with President Trump.That said, the N.F.L. includes its share of misfits and wayward sons, and from time to time, the patriarch, or, in this case, the commissioner, has to dole out justice. How much justice often depends on the stature of the owner, the offense he or she committed and any past transgressions.Some cases are straightforward. When Edward J. DeBartolo Jr., the former owner of the San Francisco 49ers, pleaded guilty for failing to report a felony arising from a gambling fraud and extortion case, few were surprised when the commissioner at the time, Paul Tagliabue, fined him $1 million and suspended him for the 1999 season.Jim Irsay, the owner of the Indianapolis Colts, who has a history of substance abuse, pleaded guilty to driving while impaired, and was promptly suspended for six games and fined $500,000 for violating the leagues personal conduct policy.Krafts case is more complicated. He was charged with two misdemeanors, and those charges may be reduced or dropped as charges of soliciting a prostitute often are. Kraft is not married. His wife, Myra, died of cancer in 2011.Hugh Culverhouse Jr., who was involved in league matters when his father owned the Tampa Bay Buccaneers and who practiced federal criminal law for 30 years, said Goodell would most likely wait to see if the charges against Kraft were dropped, and then might only issue a fine.Even so, he suggested Kraft was likely to be treated with kid gloves because he is among the most powerful owners. Kraft also sits on the compensation committee, which determines the size of Goodells paycheck.He essentially could be sanctioned for bad taste, Culverhouse said. It will come down to embarrassment.In a statement, the N.F.L. said it is aware of the ongoing law enforcement matter and will continue to monitor developments.At the very least, the commissioner will have to appear not to have one set of rules for players and another for owners. There are differences, though. Player penalties are negotiated by the players union and the league and included in the collective bargaining agreement.The leagues constitution says Goodell can suspend or fine an owner (for no more than $500,000), or both. A suspended owner cannot go to the teams training facility or stadium.If warranted, the commissioner can refer the matter to the entire group of owners, which can vote to impose additional penalties.That is unlikely to happen in Krafts case. Jodi Balsam, who was a lawyer at the N.F.L. and now teaches at Brooklyn Law School, said the league often waits until legal cases are resolved before penalties are assessed. Prostitution cases are often adjudicated quickly, she said, though this case will receive more scrutiny because it is part of a human trafficking investigation.If he is convicted, that would seem to bolster the case for commissioner discipline, she said. And even if he escapes criminal penalty, the league can conduct its own investigation and decide to penalize him.Goodell and the Patriots have butted heads before, over Spygate, in which the Patriots were found to be filming their opponents sideline to steal signals, and Deflategate, in which a league investigation determined it was most likely that the team had deliberately deflated footballs in inclement weather so players could grip the ball better.Kraft didnt hide his anger about the penalties his organization received in those cases. This one, of course, is different.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Raymond ZhongBEIJING  To entrepreneurs in China, he is a legend akin to Steve Jobs.To United States officials, he is the secretive mastermind behind a company that is extending the Chinese governments ability to infiltrate computer systems and data networks around the world.But for all his fame and power, Ren Zhengfei, the 74-year-old founder and chief executive of the Chinese technology giant Huawei, may no longer have the luxury of letting his companys success speak for itself.In his first public comments since United States authorities arranged for the arrest of his daughter Meng Wanzhou, who is also Huaweis chief financial officer, Mr. Ren told a group of reporters on Tuesday that he missed his daughter very much, and that he would wait to see if President Trump intervened in her case. He called Mr. Trump a great president, and said that his tax cuts had helped American business.Ms. Meng was arrested in Canada last month on accusations of defrauding banks to help Huaweis business in Iran. Washington is seeking her extradition, but Mr. Trump has suggested that he might intercede if it would help China and the United States reach a deal to end their trade war. Huawei has said that it is unaware of any wrongdoing by Ms. Meng.And last week, the Polish authorities said they had arrested a Huawei employee there on charges of spying for Beijing. The company fired the man on Saturday.Mr. Ren insisted that his company had not spied for China.I love my country. I support the Communist Party. But I will never do anything to harm any country in the world, Mr. Ren said on Tuesday. A company spokesman confirmed his remarks.Huawei has 180,000 employees and has become the worlds largest maker of telecommunications equipment. It estimates that it generated more than $100 billion in sales last year, and it sells more smartphones around the world than Apple. Yet Mr. Ren seldom appears in public.When he has spoken to the news media in the past, he has played down his achievements, attributing Huaweis success to its employees hard work. He has said that his company has never spied for any government  an assertion that has not eased the concerns of American counterintelligence officials.For most of its existence, Huawei was opaque to people in China, too.It was founded in 1987, but it did not begin publishing the names and biographies of its board members until its 2010 annual report. Mr. Ren spoke to the news media for the first time in 2013. The next year, he told The Independent of London that he had no hobbies, prompting a colleague to lean in and suggest that he enjoyed reading and drinking tea.Mr. Ren was born in 1944, in the mountainous southwestern province of Guizhou. His parents were teachers; he was one of seven children. His father, Ren Moxun, was the son of a master ham maker in Zhejiang Province. When he was growing up, Mr. Ren wrote in a 2001 article, the family was so poor that he did not own a proper shirt until after high school.According to an official company biography, he studied engineering in college and joined the Chinese militarys infrastructure engineering corps in 1974 to help build and run a factory manufacturing synthetic fibers for textiles. At a time when China had no private-sector economy to speak of, it was not unusual for college graduates to join the military.The infrastructure engineering corps was disbanded in 1983, according to the official biography. A few years later, Mr. Ren and business partners founded Huawei in what he called, in a 2016 interview with the official news agency Xinhua, a run-down shack. The company started as a reseller of telephone equipment imported from Hong Kong, but later started developing its own technology.As it expanded around China and then across the world, Huawei inculcated a die-hard competitive spirit in its employees, pushing them to work harder and move faster than the companys rivals. Huawei still speaks proudly of its wolf culture.We will always have wolf culture, Mr. Ren said in an interview last year with Xinhua. Catching prey might be difficult. But the wolf is unrelenting.Mr. Ren has a reputation for being blunt in conversation. In 2010, Rick Perry, then the governor of Texas, spoke at the ribbon-cutting for Huaweis new American headquarters in Plano.If you didnt know any better, youd say he grew up out in West Texas, Mr. Perry, who is now Mr. Trumps energy secretary, said, according to a video of the event posted online by the governors office.That penchant for brutal honesty has not spared the members of Mr. Rens family who also have worked for Huawei: Ms. Meng and her husband, plus two of Mr. Rens siblings.For a long time, people in the telecom industry speculated about whether Mr. Ren would pick one of these relatives to lead the company after his death. But in a 2013 letter to employees that was shared on a company website, Mr. Ren said his successor needed to have vision, good character and a deep understanding of both new technologies and customers needs.My family members do not possess these qualities, he wrote. Therefore they will never join the line of succession.Mr. Rens plain speaking has not managed to make United States officials feel comfortable about allowing Huaweis gear into the countrys internet infrastructure.Huawei executives have said repeatedly that they are independent of the Chinese government and military. They have challenged Western governments to produce evidence that the firms products are vulnerable to state meddling.According to a diplomatic cable published by WikiLeaks, Mr. Ren told the American consul general in Guangzhou in 2008 that if Huawei really had ties to Beijing, the company would be in real estate, not telecom equipment. That, he said, was where the easy money was.But for some of Huaweis critics, such assurances do not outweigh larger concerns about the Chinese governments behavior in the digital realm.Its not really about Rens roots in the P.L.A., in my opinion, said Andrew Davenport, the chief operating officer of RWR Advisory Group, a Washington-based risk consulting firm, referring to the Peoples Liberation Army. Its just the fact that theyre Chinese, and are tainted by their governments poor record on cyberespionage.Mr. Davenport added: Any global Chinese tech actor is at risk of being considered a liability, because theyre going to be susceptible to doing what Chinese government wants them to do.Follow Raymond Zhong on Twitter: @zhonggg.Carolyn Zhang contributed research.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Annie KarniWASHINGTON  The White House is considering Indra K. Nooyi, the former chief executive officer of PepsiCo, for the position of World Bank president, according to several people familiar with the process.Ms. Nooyi, who stepped down from her role at PepsiCo last August after leading the company for 12 years, has been courted as an administration ally by Ivanka Trump, the presidents eldest daughter, who is playing a role in the selection of a nominee.The decision-making process for the top post at the World Bank is fluid and in its initial stages, and early front-runners and candidates often fall off the radar, or withdraw from consideration, before the president makes his ultimate pick. Mr. Trump often makes his own gut decisions about whom to chose.It is unclear whether Ms. Nooyi would accept the nomination if chosen by the administration, but Ms. Trump, who has written on Twitter that she views Ms. Nooyi as a mentor + inspiration, has floated her name as a potential successor. Ms. Nooyi has dined with the president and other business leaders at his golf club in Bedminster, N.J. She drew criticism for assuming an advisory role on his business council, which was disbanded after many chief executives quit following Mr. Trumps comments that blamed many sides for white supremacist violence in Charlottesville, Va., in August 2017.Negative comments that Ms. Nooyi made after the 2016 election, during which she did not publicly endorse any candidate, are seen as a potential roadblock to her nomination. Mr. Trumps win, she said, created a lot of questions among her daughters and her employees.They were all in mourning, Ms. Nooyi said in an interview with Andrew Ross Sorkin at The New York Timess DealBook conference in 2016.Our employees are all crying. And the question that theyre asking, especially those who are not white: Are we safe? Women are asking, Are we safe? LGBT people are asking, Are we safe? I never thought Id have had to answer those questions.Ms. Nooyi later tried to clarify her remarks, and a spokesman for PepsiCo told Fortune magazine that Mrs. Nooyi misspoke. She was referring to the reaction of a group of employees she spoke to who were apprehensive about the outcome of the election. She never intended to imply that all employees feel the same way.That those past comments may hinder her chances are a reminder that Mr. Trump does not have a large circle of loyalists to choose from for top positions.Other candidates are also being considered, including David Malpass, the under secretary of the Treasury for international affairs, whose loyalty to the president runs deep: He served as an economic adviser on Mr. Trumps 2016 campaign. Another name in the mix is Ray Washburne, the president of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. Mr. Washburne also served on Mr. Trumps 2016 finance team and was seen as an early candidate for a cabinet position.The World Banks current president, Jim Yong Kim, said this month that he would step down in February to join a private infrastructure investment firm, an unexpected departure that comes nearly three years before the end of his term. Mr. Kim was first appointed by the Obama administration in 2012, on the recommendation of Hillary Clinton when she was secretary of state, and was reappointed by President Barack Obama in 2016 to serve a second five-year term.The process of choosing a successor is being overseen by Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary; Mick Mulvaney, the acting chief of staff; and Ms. Trump, whose role in the process was announced by the White House on Monday.Ms. Trumps role in the process drew some criticism from ethics watchdogs on Monday, who said that it could pose a conflict of interest for the presidents daughter to be involved in international economic matters when she has not completely divested from her assets.But Ms. Trumps role is notable because of her unique sway over her father when it comes to personnel matters. The group was expected to begin the interview process on Tuesday in order to present Mr. Trump with recommendations for a nominee.A White House spokesman did not respond to a request for comment about the candidates.An earlier version of this article misstated Indra K. Nooyis position in the 2016 presidential election. She did not publicly support a candidate in the race; she did not endorse Hillary Clinton.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. Another government shutdown looming in the U.S., a princess worrying fate in Dubai and a clue to the Russia investigation. Heres the latest: Bipartisan negotiations to avert a shutdown by a deadline of this Friday have broken down. Congressional Democrats and Republicans had hoped to be finalizing an agreement by now. But they have largely stopped communicating about a compromise that would keep the government open while allocating some money for border security and barriers.The sticking point: Talks collapsed over Democrats effort to force Immigration and Customs Enforcement to limit the number of beds in its detention centers to 16,500 by focusing on detaining migrants with criminal records instead of people who have overstayed their visas. Behind the scenes: President Trump vowed to build his promised wall one way or the other, and officials are in what one described as a surreal scramble to map how he might declare a national emergency to do so. One proposal is to claim that the wall would be built to protect the thousands of troops now operating near the border or deploying there soon. About 51,000 people marched in Paris and southern French cities on Saturday, according to the police. Windows were smashed, a protester was severely injured when a police sting-ball grenade that he had tried to pick up exploded in his hand, and an antiterrorism units car burned near the Eiffel Tower. Big picture: Turnout was about one-fifth the size of the first Yellow Vest demonstration, in mid-November, and down from 84,000 in mid-January.The Yellow Vests demands about the cost of living have grown more nebulous, but the movement remains popular with the public and unmoved by concessions from President Emmanuel Macron, whose popularity has somewhat risen despite their insistent calls for his resignation.Protests in Spain: Two days before the start of a landmark trial of 12 Catalan separatist leaders, tens of thousands of right-leaning protesters gathered in Madrid on Sunday, calling for the ouster of Prime Minister Pedro Snchez and denouncing his proposal for talks to ease the secessionist conflict in Catalonia.Sheikha Latifa  one of 30 children of Dubais ruler, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum  tried to escape to the U.S. through India last March, informing her friends that she would soon be free.Less than a week later, she went silent, and in December her family released photos of her back at home that heightened questions about her condition. Her case has since become a stain on Dubais globalized image.Background: In a secret video she recorded before her planned departure from Dubai, Sheikha Latifa described a life spent in a gilded cage.She said she had first tried to escape the kingdom many years ago, but was taken back and held in solitary confinement for more than three years, during which time she was frequently beaten and deprived of medical care.When she was released at 19, she still wasnt free to study medicine, as she wanted, or to travel.Analysis: Like the accounts of women who have tried to escape Saudi Arabia, Sheikha Latifas case has punctured the glittering image of Dubai  behind which it is a repressive state  and served as a reminder of the limitations on women there, regardless of status or nationality.When a mining dam collapsed in the town of Brumadinho last month, it unleashed a deluge of toxic mud that stretched for five miles, killing more than 150 people and crushing homes and offices.The tragedy was hardly a surprise, experts told us.Analysis: Brazil has 88 mining dams built like the one that failed: enormous reservoirs of mining waste held back by little more than walls of sand and silt.Even more alarming, at least 28 sit directly uphill from cities or towns, with more than 100,000 people living in especially risky areas if the dams failed, an estimate by The New York Times found.How we know: Our team interviewed engineers and locals to take an expansive look at the disaster, reconstructing the muds deadly journey and illustrating how these dams are built and what led the one in Brumadinho to crumble.Russia investigation: A prosecutor for the special counsel, Robert Mueller, made cryptic comments in a court hearing last week that suggest that investigators are pursuing the question of whether there was any kind of deal between Russia and the Trump campaign, centered on U.S. sanctions relief.Romania: When Laura Codruta Kovesi was in charge of the countrys antigraft agency, she generated a furious backlash by taking on entrenched corruption. Now that she is in the running to be the first public prosecutor for the E.U., Romanias justice minister is trying to scuttle her appointment.Britain: A week after a London woman became the first in the country to be convicted by a jury over the genital cutting of her daughter, a bill to enhance protections for children at risk of genital cutting was blocked in the House of Commons by a single objection, that of a veteran Conservative lawmaker. Hunga Tonga-Hunga Haapai: The young island in the South Pacific, birthed in an underwater volcano eruption four years ago and part of Tonga, could hold clues about how water might have shaped similar features on Mars billions of years ago. Grammys: Childish Gambinos This Is America won for song of the year, and Michelle Obama made a surprise appearance as Alicia Keys hosted musics top awards show. Here is our commentary as events unfolded, a full list of winners and looks from the red carpet. Germany: In a country with an ingrained distrust of spy agencies, Chancellor Angela Merkel inaugurated a vast new headquarters for the nations intelligence service in the heart of Berlin. London Zoo: A rare male Sumatran tiger was paired with a female in a risky matchmaking operation, and on their first meeting, on Friday, he mauled her to death, prompting questions about whether the tragedy could have been avoided. Prince Philip: At 97, the husband of Queen Elizabeth II has given up his drivers license, a month after a collision on a rural road north of London raised questions about his abilities behind the wheel. Gender equality on the waves: Female surfers are fighting to break into the male-dominated arena of big-wave contests  and to be paid as much as their male counterparts.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Transform cauliflower into a weeknight vegan curry. (Sign up for the Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter for more recipe recommendations.)Word of the day: gynandromorph. An organism that has both male and female physical characteristics in various parts of its body, like this rare cardinal bird.Is your child spending money on in-app purchases? We compiled ways to avoid bait apps.It was 1983, and 47 million people in the U.S. were watching Michael Jackson moonwalk across the stage to his hit Billie Jean during a TV special.The performance immortalized a move that recently re-entered the public consciousness when Virginias governor, Ralph Northam, who is white, said he had dressed as Jackson and done the moonwalk during a dance contest in 1984.In Jacksons 1988 autobiography, which shares its name with the famous move, he describes the moonwalk as a popping type of thing that black kids had created dancing on street corners in the ghetto.The moonwalk had been performed for decades by a range of entertainers (albeit often by a more literal name, the backslide). But it was the King of Pop who would be remembered, as one dance critic put it, coasting backward across the stage, step by gliding step, as if on a cushion of air.Chris Stanford, on the briefings team, wrote todays Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and heres our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byCurrent EventsBy Michael GoncharWalls protect. Walls divide. Both these statements are true. Yet perhaps no issue represents the deep political chasm separating this country as a wall  a big, beautiful wall in the words of President Trump.In this lesson plan, students move past the political rhetoric to analyze the function and symbolism of a border wall. They learn about whats in place already along the United States-Mexico border, they find out what life in the borderlands is like, they learn more about border security and they consider walls as symbols. Then, if you would like to go further, we invite your students to compare President Trumps proposed wall to other historic walls, from China to Berlin, and we offer a related Student Opinion question about the shutdown and the wall that students can answer._________Ask students to respond to the following prompt:Both of the following statements are true.Walls protect.Walls divide.Which statement do you think is more true? Explain why.Then have students share their answers as a class.If you are feeling a little more adventurous, you can have students stand up and respond to this same prompt using a barometer activity. Tape two signs, Walls Protect and Walls Divide, on opposite ends of the classroom. Ask students to stand along a continuum between the two signs based on how strongly they feel about their answer to the prompt. Give them a minute to find their spot along the continuum, then have students share what they think and why._________For the main part of this lesson, we propose a stations activity. Depending on your goals, however, you may simply choose to do one of these stations, such as the first one about what is currently in place at the United States-Mexico border, as a whole class activity. Each station has one main resource, or set of resources, accompanied by questions for writing and discussion, as well as suggestions for further research if there is time. The activity concludes with a writing activity in which students reflect on what they learned and what they think.Station 1: The Current U.S.-Mexico BorderInstructions: Close your eyes. Imagine what you think the 1,954-mile United States-Mexico border looks like.Then scroll through this NYTimes.com interactive to learn about what security measures are already in place at the border.Then, answer these questions:1. Describe the current United States-Mexico border as if you were telling a friend who had no idea what the border was like.2. Describe the current United States approach to controlling who and what passes across the border with Mexico.3. Imagine what you think the 5,525-mile United States-Canada border looks like. Then look at some photographs documenting that border. How is the United States northern border different from its southern border? Why do you think it is so different?4. Do you think the current approach to United States border security is effective? What ideas do you have to make it more effective? 5. Do you think all, some or no national borders around the world should have walls or fences separating countries? Why?Here are additional resources showing what the United States-Mexico border looks like:Before the Wall: Life Along the U.S.-Mexico BorderStation 2: Life Along the BorderAccording to this 2014 data from the Mexican government, the total population that lives in cities and counties along both sides of the United States-Mexico border is 14 million people and an estimated one million people legally cross the border every day.What is life like along the border? Watch this video about two towns separated by the United States-Mexico border, Douglas, Ariz., and Agua Prieta, Sonora. Then answer these questions:1. How has life in these two towns changed since a border fence was erected in the past decade?2. How do these towns collaborate and maintain ties even though a border fence separates them?3. The binational event in the film features jaguars. What do jaguars symbolize in relation to the border?Here are additional resources showing life in the borderlands:Life in Tijuana Means Negotiating La Lnea, an Always Present WallCrossing With Faith (3-minute film)Dealing on Both Sides (3-minute film)Far From Washington, the Routine Symbiosis of the Border Plays Out in Texas and MexicoIs the Border in Crisis? Were Doing Fine, Quite Frankly, a Border City Mayor SaysStation 3: A Wall as Public PolicyFirst, look at the graph above about illegal border crossings from 2000 to 2018. Then look at the graph below, about people apprehended or turned away at the border between 2005 and 2018.What do you notice going on? What do you wonder? What story might these two graphs tell?Now look at two more graphs, about the immigrant population and the violent crime rate, from 1980 to 2016.What do you notice about these two graphs? What story might they tell?Update, Jan. 15: Here are more Times graphs that help to show whats taking place at the southern border.Then, read the introduction of this article debunking some of the rhetoric about illegal or undocumented immigrants in the United States. It begins:There are 11 million of them, the best estimates say, laboring in American fields, atop half-built towers and in restaurant kitchens, and swelling American classrooms, detention centers and immigration courts.In the publics mind, the undocumented  the people living here without permission from the American government  are Hispanic, mostly Mexican and crossed the southwestern border in secret.In the eyes of their advocates, they are families and workers, taking the jobs nobody else wants, staying out of trouble, here only to earn their way to better, safer lives for themselves and their children.At the White House, they are pariahs, criminals who menace American neighborhoods, take American jobs, sap American resources and exploit American generosity: They are people who should be, and will be, expelled.Illegal immigrants can be many of these things, and more. Eleven million allows for considerable range, crosshatched with contradictions.There may be no more powerful symbol of how fixedly Americans associate illegal immigration with Mexico than the wall President Trump has proposed building along the southern border. But many of the unauthorized are not Mexican; almost a quarter are not even Hispanic.After Mexico, Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras, the largest number of unauthorized immigrants comes from China (an estimated 268,000), where deportations run aground on a less literal wall: China is one of 23 countries that do not cooperate with deportations. (The Trump administration has pledged to pressure all 23 into doing so.)They tend to be younger  the Pew Research Center has found that adult unauthorized immigrants were, at the median, about a decade younger than American-born adults  and skew slightly more male than the rest of the country.Then answer these questions:1. How many undocumented immigrants are living in the United States?2. How do advocates see this group of people?3. How does the White House view this same group?4. From where do they come? List the top six countries of origin.If you have more time, choose one or more of the other five sections in the same article to read: Strong American Ties, Criminal Records, Overstayed Their Visas, Repeat Crossers and Asylum Seekers. For each section you read, write two things you learn or that surprise you.Here are additional resources related to people and things crossing the border illegally: By Land, Sea or Catapult: How Smugglers Get Drugs Across the Border The Number of Undocumented Immigrants in the U.S. Has Dropped, a Study Says. Here Are 5 Takeaways. The Wall and the Shutdown, ExplainedStation 4: The Psychology of WallsWalls arent just tangible objects we can touch. They can also have real psychological power.Costica Bradatan, a professor in the Honors College at Texas Tech University, wrote about the power of walls back in 2011, in advance of the 2012 presidential election. Read the following excerpts from his essay, and decide if they feel relevant today:Walls are back in fashion. Walls and fences. Not long ago, you may recall, Republican presidential candidates expressed their devotion to them. In October Michele Bachmann signed a pledge to support the construction of a fence that would run the entire length of the United States-Mexico border. Not to be outdone, Herman Cain voiced his support for an electrified border fence, one juiced up enough to be lethal: Touch it and die. As someone who grew up behind the Iron Curtain, I happen to know how the device works; in a certain way, we invented it (we should have copyrighted it). The ability to cross the lethal fence used to be part of the East-European survival kit.He continues:While walls and fences are certainly physical things  imposing ones at that  a good deal of their power comes from elsewhere. As their role in political discourse makes clear, they are also things of the mind. And it is not a concept confined by American borders. The Germans, who seem to have a name for everything, use the phrase Mauer im Kopf (wall in the head) to refer to the phenomenon. The Berlin Wall may have been torn down long ago, but many people in Germany still feel divided; the wall is intact in their minds. (As a native of Germany, Niemann may know a thing or two about this.) Walls can be spectacular as architectural structures but they can be even more fascinating as entities that inhabit our thinking and shape cultures.Walls, then, are built not for security, but for a sense of security. The distinction is important, as those who commission them know very well. What a wall satisfies is not so much a material need as a mental one. Walls protect people not from barbarians, but from anxieties and fears, which can often be more terrible than the worst vandals. In this way, they are built not for those who live outside them, threatening as they may be, but for those who dwell within. In a certain sense, then, what is built is not a wall, but a state of mind.Then answer these questions:1. Costica Bradatan asserts that a good deal of the power of walls and fences come from their psychological power. What does he mean? To what extent do you agree?2. He argues that walls are not built for security, but instead for a sense of security. Why does he make this distinction? Do you agree?3. Do you think walls have a different psychological effect from fences? Or are they really just the same thing with a different name?Station 5: A Political SymbolHours before a partial government shutdown kicked in at midnight on Dec. 22, President Trump released a video reiterating his demand for additional funding for a wall or a slat fence or whatever you want to call it. He said, We need a great barrier. In the video, he claimed: Its very dangerous out there. Drugs are pouring in, human trafficking, so many different problems, including gangs like M.S. 13. We dont want them in the United States. The White House previously declared there is a crisis at the border.The Times Editorial Board counters Mr. Trumps claim that border security is a crisis in this editorial, writing:Lets be clear: This fight [about the wall and the shutdown] is not about security. Contrary to Mr. Trumps claims, there is no flood of savage foreigners pouring across the border. Even so, reasonable Democrats and Republicans acknowledge a need for some mix of a bigger staff, better technology and, yes, fencing  as well as humane and sensible immigration and asylum policies. Achieving all of that has proved a tall order even for competent administrations. But its why Congress, on a bipartisan basis, has already been allocating more money for border security  although the administration has spent less than 10 percent of what Congress has allocated in the past year.To avoid the complex, hard work that has traditionally gone with his job, Mr. Trump has instead manufactured a political impasse over a symbol, a wall, that even his new acting chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, back when he was a congressman, derided as an easy thing to sell politically that doesnt really solve the problem. John Kelly, Mr. Trumps departing chief of staff, told The Los Angeles Times that the administration long ago abandoned the idea of a concrete wall as irrelevant to the real needs of border security  drawing a heated contradiction from the president on Twitter.Writing in National Review, a conservative magazine and website, Jonah Goldberg agrees that the wall is in fact a big symbol: Trumps wall is now an entirely symbolic affair. He continues: The symbolism is more important than the reality. Indeed, the president has offered to compromise, saying that we dont have to call it a wall and it doesnt even have to really look like one. But that doesnt matter either, because for Democrats, any structure that the president could claim victory over would be a defeat.Answer these questions:1. Do you agree that the border wall has become a political symbol for both the presidents supporters and opponents? Why?2. As of Jan. 3, parts of the United States government were closed because the president and Congress could not agree on the presidents demand for $5 billion in funding to begin construction of a border wall. Do you think the two branches of government will be able to get past this impasse? Should either side compromise? And if yes, what should a compromise look like? 3. In its editorial, the Times Editorial Board suggests the need for sensible border security investments and immigration reform. In his essay, Mr. Goldberg writes that the symbolism of the wall fight has made immigration policy itself something of an afterthought. First, do you agree with either or both of these positions? Second, do you think the president and Congress will be able to move past the shutdown standoff to address larger issues related to immigration? Why or why not?4. Walls also can have great symbolic power. The Department of Homeland Security unveiled eight wall prototypes in October 2017, which President Trump visited six months later. None of these prototypes have been selected, and no wall has been built. But these eight prototypes have symbolic power.Choose one of these eight prototypes and explain what you think it symbolizes from two points of view: first, for the president and his supporters, and second, for the presidents political opponents.Now, look at some proposals that werent selected, including a 2,000-mile pink wall, a shopping mall and a detention center. Again, choose one proposal and explain the symbolic value for both the presidents supporters and opponents.Here are additional resources related to the wall as a political symbol:National Review | Shutdown Symbolism National Review | The Irrational Allergy to the Wall End of Government Shutdown May Depend on the Definition of WallConclusion and ReflectionAfter students have completed the four stations, have them discuss what they learned and what surprised them. Then, ask them to write a response to the warm-up prompt, using evidence from the four stations.Walls protect. Walls divide. Which statement do you think is more true when it comes to the United States-Mexico border? Explain why.As an alternative, students can draw their own editorial cartoon offering commentary on the issue._________Going Further: Research Other WallsIn May 2016, in the middle of the last presidential campaign, The Upshot featured 16 walls and fences from history and today. The article begins:It is lost to history whether Hadrian, Qin Shi Huang or Nikita Khrushchev ever uttered, I will build a wall.But build they did, and what happened? The history of walls  to keep people out or in  is also the history of people managing to get around, over and under them. Some come tumbling down.The classic example is the Great Wall of China. Imposing and remarkably durable, yes, yet it didnt block various nomadic tribes from the north. History is full of examples of engineering thwarted by goal-oriented rank amateurs. But Donald Trump has promised to build a wall on the United States-Mexican border that he says will be big, beautiful, tall and strong, and he says Mexico will pay for it.Select one of the walls included in the article and find out more about the following:1. Why was the wall built?2. How was it built? Of what material?3. To what extent did the wall fulfill its purpose?4. What, if any, unintended consequences did the wall have?5. What is the walls legacy? How is it viewed today?Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael TackettWASHINGTON  President Trumps confrontations with potential Democratic challengers in 2020 have mostly been limited to sniping on Twitter. But on Monday night in El Paso, he will engage in his most direct conflict with a possible rival  former Representative Beto ORourke, a native of the city that shares a border with Mexico.Mr. Trumps rally in El Paso is his most significant since the midterm elections that delivered the House of Representatives to Democrats. It will provide the president with a backdrop that he will use to again argue for a border wall to stop what he said is a surge of crime and drugs being brought into the country by migrants seeking illegal entry.The Democrats do not want us to detain, or send back, criminal aliens! This is a brand new demand. Crazy!Mr. ORourke has been among those who have strongly rebutted the presidents case that El Paso serves as an example of where building a wall has indeed provided a solution to crime.If immigrants are good for the country, the border is secure and walls end lives instead of saving them, then why does the president try to scare us about immigrants and the border and take our land to build a wall we dont need? Mr. ORourke said on Twitter.Mr. ORourke has also used Twitter to make his own case, fact by fact, that Mr. Trumps argument is flawed and inaccurate.Mr. Trump is scheduled to begin speaking at a Make America Great Again rally at the El Paso County Coliseum at 7 p.m. Mountain time (9 Eastern). Mr. ORourke and his supporters will meet up at Bowie High School at 5 p.m., then march to Chalio Acosta Sports Center, about a half-mile away. He will also begin speaking at 7 p.m.During his State of the Union address last week, Mr. Trump falsely cited El Paso as an example of a city where building a wall worked to deter crime.The border city of El Paso, Tex., used to have extremely high rates of violent crime  one of the highest in the entire country, and was considered one of our nations most dangerous cities. Now, immediately upon its building, with a powerful barrier in place, El Paso is one of the safest cities in our country, he said.[Read about what President Trump plans to discuss at his El Paso rally.]But before the border barriers were completed in El Paso, in 2008, the city had the second-lowest violent crime rate among more than 20 similarly sized American cities. In 2010, after the fence construction, it retained its ranking. Also, El Paso was never one of the most dangerous cities in the United States.Mr. Trump relishes political combat and this is the first time in the 2020 election cycle that he will be on a dueling, if separate, stage with a Democrat who may try to unseat him. Mr. ORourke told Oprah Winfrey that he would make a decision about running for president by the end of February.It seems a near certainty that Mr. Trump will try to counter the protest in El Paso and its unofficial leader, Mr. ORourke. How frontally he criticizes the former congressman, and whether he tries to brand him with a derogatory nickname will be measures of how seriously he takes Mr. ORourkes potential candidacy.Mr. ORourke is the near opposite of the president in tone. During his losing senate campaign last year, he offered himself as a candidate who could bridge divides and wanted to go beyond convenient party labels. That modulated approach is seen as part of his larger appeal. He was able to attract donations nationwide and build a following even as he lost his race.Now he will face a different test in an opponent whose first instinct is to fight.Cable news outlets are expected to cover the rallies, and the president almost always takes priority over the words of someone who does not even hold elective office. This time may be different. At a minimum, prepare for a split-screen approach that will offer the freshest soundings of what promises to be a long and bitter presidential campaign.Follow Michael Tackett on Twitter: @tackettdc.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byJessica Pels, the editor, is trying to save the magazine from the jaws of Instagram.By Katherine RosmanBad ideas first! is how Jessica Pels began a session brainstorming cover lines for the May issue of Cosmopolitan. She was named editor in chief at the Hearst Magazines publication last fall.Ms. Pelss legs dangled as she perched on a credenza on one end of the long conference room and revealed to some 40 staff members from various departments, including video and social media, that Yara Shahidi, a star of the sitcom Black-ish, would be appearing on the cover, alongside Charles Melton, who plays Reggie on Riverdale. They are both in the forthcoming movie The Sun Is Also a Star.Cosmopolitan, which has the highest circulation of any Hearst magazine, was taken from a sleepy literary journal to a sensational pro-sex feminist magazine by its longtime editor, Helen Gurley Brown, who worked there from 1965 to 1997. She stepped down at age 74 and became editor in chief of Cosmos international editions until her death in 2012 at 90.Cover lines, long thought to compel buyers to pluck a magazine off a crowded newsstand, were always a main ingredient of Ms. Browns success. Hers (often written by her husband, the Hollywood producer David Brown) were especially breathy and enticing: Worlds Greatest Lover  what it was like to be wooed by him!Now, cover lines are mere adornment to the print product  something that may be thought of as a loss leader for a brand aimed at women aged 18 to 34, possibly the most mobile-phone-obsessed demo there is. Ms. Pels hopes Hearst will come up with a way to easily let readers subscribe by text and pay with Venmo. She opens Instagram 42 times a day, said Ms. Pels of the Cosmo reader. Anything she can do on her phone, she will. Addressing her staff, Ms. Pels stressed that the cover-line language shouldnt be too sexy because Ms. Shahidi is just 19 and Mr. Melton is nearly a decade older. She wanted to avoid doing the films marketing by presenting them as a couple with chemistry. Moreover, in real life Mr. Melton is dating Camila Mendes, who plays Veronica on Riverdale. We dont want to lean out of that, we want the Cami-stans to want to pick it up, one editor piped in. (For those over the age of 40: a stan is a kind of superfan.)The ideas started flying. Many made Ms. Pels laugh.Win a night out with Yara and Charles. *JK: theyre not dating, youre not going, its not happening.Yara Shahidi and Charles Melton: The girl you want to be and the boy you want to The goal, Ms. Pels said, is to call them the prom king and queen of young Hollywood without calling them the prom king and queen. Theyre a new paradigm in Hollywood, she said.The cover line she ultimately went with was Hollywood just got hotter.Ms. Pels herself is representative of a new paradigm. At 32, she is at least 10 years younger than any of her recent predecessors. And though she likely draws a smaller paycheck than those who came before her, she has more digital media experience than most of them combined.She grew up in East Cobb, Ga., attended the Tisch School of the Arts at New York University and now lives in Brooklyn with her husband. While she was a student, she had internships at The New Yorker and Vogue, before graduating in 2008 with a degree in film and video production. She was hired by Cond Nast, first at Glamour and then Teen Vogue, before landing at Hearst. For four years Ms. Pels headed MarieClaire.com, starting with a staff of two that grew to about 11 by the time she got the same job at Cosmo.Ms. Pels ran digital platforms there for 10 months before being granted the entire kit and caboodle: the print magazine, the website, all the social channels, video platforms and branded content (what used to be known as advertorial).With Nancy Berger, the new publisher of Cosmo, she is working on licensing, e-commerce, events and partnerships. Anytime I can raise my hand and lean into something new that the brand is doing, I want to do that, Ms. Pels said. (Leaning in and out is a big thing at Cosmo.)She can spout data points as easily as Ms. Brown would sex tips. She has a big office with a large glass desk that is nearly bare but for a computer, a notebook and a pair of Apple earbuds. All she really needs are the computer and her phone, which she checks a lot for up-to-the-minute Cosmo analytics.Sitting at her desk in a plaid suit she got at Macys and a pair of high heels impractical for walking, she gazed at a graph showing the previous weeks web traffic. She pointed to a spike that showed that one day the site had 4.28 million unique visitors. Its such a pretty sight, she said.By the end of February, Cosmopolitan.com had logged 41 million unique visitors, according to comScore. In February 2018, the month after Ms. Pels started as the top editor, there were 15 million.Digital subscriptions from December 2016 to December 2018 have increased from 85,060 to 242,075, according to the Alliance for Audited Media.E-commerce on the site has doubled in the last year, Hearst said. Cosmo readers like to buy small-ticket items from the site, which takes the tone of a girlfriend making recommendations. Books, streamed movies, bras and vibrators sell particularly well from the site, Ms. Pels said. Hearst earns affiliate revenue from items that readers buy via Cosmos website.Jess is nailing it on digital, and she knows how to connect with the audience in print too, said Ms. Berger, who previously worked as publisher of Marie Claire. What is happening at Cosmo right now is the new way forward.But can Ms. Pels save the print edition of Cosmo from the fate of her alma maters Glamour and Teen Vogue, whose regular print editions have been killed? Not to mention Cosmos little sister CosmoGirl, which folded in 2008?Single-copy print sales, a metric that refers mostly to airport and newsstand sales, dropped from 2016 to 2018 from 274,833 to 123,250, the Alliance for Audited Media reported. (Paid print subscriptions have increased slightly, to 2.67 million from 2.64 million.)Kate Lewis, the chief content officer at Hearst Magazines and Ms. Pelss biggest booster, said she expects Cosmo to continue as a print-based publication for at least the next five years. And these days overall revenue, which includes advertorial and e-commerce, is more important to the company than newsstand sales.Ms. Pelss ascendence at Cosmo has come amid a changing of the guard at the magazine company. In July 2018, Troy Young was named president of Hearst Magazines, after more than five years as the companys head digital executive. (He replaced David Carey, who had served as president for eight years.)Mr. Young has provided for the company an internal data analyzing product that staffers refer to as Hans (Hearst answers). Staffers can enter a question into a Hans Slack channel, asking for sliced-and-diced information as they might a salad at the airy company cafeteria.Ms. Pels, for example, might message the Hans bot asking what is the days best-performing e-commerce item or which print magazine story is drawing the highest numbers online at a particular time of day.And he will answer, which is really cool, she said.For all the meeting time spent on print cover lines, they are now far less important than trying to create a social-media moment that will bring readers to the Cosmo website. The April cover features the four women who will star in the coming reboot of The Hills, the MTV hit, posed in a vintage metallic powder blue car. To launch the cover, Ms. Pels and her team called upon Spencer Pratt, a love-to-hate-him figure from the original show, who is married to Heidi Montag, a star of the original and the reboot. In a livestreamed video, Mr. Pratt sits in his kitchen trying to read the entire issue of Cosmo, front to back, to his son, who eventually toddles himself out of the situation.For the March cover, the actress Lana Condor was photographed grabbing a slice from a heart-shaped pizza. As the issue was being released, Cosmo sent Ms. Condor a heart-shaped pizza and tipped off her boyfriend, Anthony De La Torre, so he could record the moment and Ms. Condor could share it. (Cosmo also sent the issue and heart pizzas to well-followed Lana-stan Instagram accounts.)Back in the day, Cosmo covers were known for the wind-machined coifs, contoured cheekbones and plunging cleavage favored by one signature photographer, Francesco Scavullo. The next era brought fewer models and more actresses, standing against a solid-color backdrop. Ms. Pels, working with the magazines new creative director, Andy Turnbull, wanted the covers to look more like Instagram photos.So she has data pulled that identifies top -performing Instagrams, which then inspire Cosmo photo shoots. As it happens, heart-shaped pizza is popular on Insta. As are vintage metallic blue cars. As are bathtubs, which can be seen in the background of Ms. Condors photo spread. Were using Instagram to back into our planning print shoots, Ms. Pels said.From Hans, Ms. Pels and her staff have learned a lot about what sort of articles website visitors prefer and what drives them to click. They also collect data through polls, lots of them, couched as simple newsy questions like Do you think that Kylie is self-made? and Do you think the students who were accepted under false pretenses should have their admissions revoked? The typical reader loves astrology, so there is now a multipage astrology section in every issue. (A regular column is called Ask Your Astrolobestie.) She favors true crime stories and celebrity interviews, but also wants to be in the know about issues important to young women, hence substantive features like Inside the Scam of the Purity Movement.And, obvz, sex, a Cosmo staple for 50 years, is not going anywhere. But Ms. Pelss idea of sex is less heteronormative, she said. In March, there was a two-page spread on how to give oral sex headlined Get in Formation, with explicit drawings of two entwined figures. One is clearly a woman, the others gender is not obvious.Though the magazines staff is not strikingly diverse, it strives for fair representation of models and article subjects; one recent story was 5 Disability-Friendly Sex Positions You Need in Your Life.Covering web culture is paramount, and recent stories have included What Your Go-To Selfie Face Says About You and a granular analysis of stalking habits. (I was out at a bar one night going through my Snap feed when I saw this guy who ghosted me in the background of a friends Story.) The voice Ms. Pels wants, she said, is your texts with your girlfriends on your funniest day.She insisted that she is guided not just by data, but also instinct and affinity. I am her, she said. Im smack-dab in our demo. I think shes bold. I think shes unapologetic about having fun. I think she wants to have an impact on the world around her, and that she should. Cindi Leive, the former editor of Glamour who was Ms. Pelss boss there, said that her onetime assistant was from the start an overachiever who greatly exceeded expectations. When Ms. Leive asked her to help find authors for a Glamour book of essays, she delivered Maya Angelou. When Ms. Leive asked her to round up some motivational quotes for a speech Ms. Leive would be delivering, Ms. Pels managed to get original material from Jimmy Fallon.I would have her edit my editors letters not as an act of charity or to make her feel good, Ms. Leive said. I did it because she made the pieces better.At MarieClaire.com, Ms. Lewis, a former Cond Nast human resources executive who had recruited Ms. Pels to Hearst, was impressed when Ms. Pels came to her asking for money to produce an ambitious package about women and guns. It became clear at that moment that she understood video in a way that was special, she said.As Cosmos digital director, Ms. Pels arranged to get video footage and interviews in Parkland, Fla., the week when students returned to Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School after the mass shooting in February 2018.The cover-lines meeting, however, fell on a different kind of news day. The main item was that Khlo Kardashian, the 34-year-old star of reality and talk shows like Khlo & Lamar and Kocktails With Khlo, had broken up with Tristan Thompson, an N.B.A. center for the Cleveland Cavaliers with whom Khlo had a baby girl last April, named True.Ms. Kardashian, TMZ had reported, had learned that Mr. Thompson had hooked up with Jordyn Woods, 21, who became famous for being Kardashian-adjacent: As followers of Kylie Jenners Instagram know, Ms. Woods is/was BFF with Kylie, whose half sister is Khlo.The story quickly became Cosmos Mueller report. As it happened, the magazine had in its current issue a multipage feature on Ms. Woods, along with original photographs of her, and Cosmo staffers flooded the zone with new articles. One of its best-read stories tracked  with frequent updates and screen-shotted visual evidence  which Kardashians had unfollowed Ms. Woods and Mr. Thompson on Instagram.By the end of the day, nearly 4.3 million readers had come to the site, nearly doubling the traffic from the previous best day (Feb. 11, after the Grammy Awards).As soon as the meeting ended, Ms. Pels stepped into the hall, checked the data on her phone and kicked one heel insouciantly behind her, a fun fearless female.Its going to be our biggest day ever, she said.KatherineRosman is a features reporter. She covers media, social media and celebrity  and the way in which they intersect and collide. She joined The Times in 2014.  @katierosman Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Elisha BrownNASA on Friday officially renamed a facility in West Virginia after Katherine Johnson, an African-American mathematician and centenarian whose barrier-breaking career was depicted in the film Hidden Figures.The 2016 film, based on a book released earlier that year, depicted the struggle of Ms. Johnson and other black women for equality at NASA during the height of the space age and segregation. The mathematician tracked the trajectories of crucial missions in the 1960s.I am thrilled we are honoring Katherine Johnson in this way as she is a true American icon who overcame incredible obstacles and inspired so many, Jim Bridenstine, the administrator of NASA, said Friday in a statement. A dedication ceremony is to be held at a later time.The newly renamed facility, which is in Fairmont, W.Va., will now be known as the Katherine Johnson Independent Verification and Validation Facility. The program housed at the facility monitors the software used to track high-profile NASA missions, according to the agencys website.So happy and proud to see Katherine Johnsons legacy cemented, Senator Shelley Moore Capito of West Virginia said on Twitter, noting the significance of the honor during Black History Month.President Trump signed the measure to rename the facility after Ms. Johnson in December after Congress passed a bill introduced by Senator Capito to do so, according to a NASA spokeswoman.Ms. Johnson, who turned 100 in August, remains in awe and honored by the accolades she has received, Joylette Hylick, one of Ms. Johnsons daughters, said on Friday. Ms. Hylick said her mother cant imagine why people would want to honor her for just doing a good job.NASAs decision to name the facility for Ms. Johnson is not the first time she has been celebrated on the national stage. In 2015, President Barack Obama awarded her the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nations highest civilian honor.Ms. Johnson was not always respected. Called colored computers, she and other black women who worked in NASAs computing pool more than a half-century ago were separated from their white colleagues while they calculated trajectories for the Apollo missions and other programs. Ms. Johnson tracked the orbits of certain major missions, including Alan Shepards Freedom 7 in 1961 and John Glenns Friendship 7 in 1962, the agency said.Hidden Figures, the book about Ms. Johnson and other black womens fight for equality in the workplace, increased awareness about her status as a trailblazer. The film of the same name received three Academy Award nominations.The thrilling thing to me about the book, and the movie, is this is an American story that were getting to see through the faces of these women, Margot Lee Shetterly, the books author, told The New York Times in 2016.Ms. Johnson even made an appearance at the 2017 Oscars ceremony, where Taraji P. Henson, who portrayed Ms. Johnson in the film, called her a true NASA and American hero.Ms. Hylick said that her mother was living comfortably and was humbled by the recognition. She added that she hoped the dedication would inspire others in the future, beyond Black History Month.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe inevitable decline of left-wing philo-Semitism.By Ross DouthatOpinion ColumnistLike most places, America has always had potent strains of anti-Semitism  crude and polished, K.K.K. and country club. But unlike many places, we have always had important strains of philo-Semitism as well; there is a long American tradition, with both Protestant and Enlightenment roots, of really liking Judaism and the Jews.And so the story of the Jews in post-World War II America is the story, not just of anti-Semitisms marginalization, but of philo-Semitisms triumph. Jewish Americans werent just integrated, like other ethnic and religious groups. They also attracted a particular sympathy and admiration, rooted in Holocaust remembrance, affection for Israel, and a distinctive pride in the scope of their success.[Listen to The Argument podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]For American philo-Semites, the Jewish experience wasnt just one minority experience among many, but a signal and elevated case. The outsize success of Jewish intellectuals and scientists and artists and businessmen and activists was an especially good thing, a unique proof of American exceptionalism  because ours was the one country where a people so long persecuted could not only survive but triumph. And attacks on Jewish success and influence, like attacks on the state of Israel, were treated as particularly dangerous, particularly un-American, because they threatened to undo this great achievement, and return the Jews to their historic state of constant threat and peril.This history supplies one way to understand the stakes in the controversy over Ilhan Omar, the Muslim congresswoman who keeps using anti-Semitic clichs in her criticisms of the American-Israeli relationship. The part of the American left thats defending her, or at least mitigating her offense and accusing her conservative critics of bad faith, doesnt see itself as defending Jew-hatred, and since many of those defenders are Jewish  including the arguable front-runner for the Democratic nomination, Bernie Sanders  its reasonable to take them at their word.But the defend-Omar project is a project that seeks to push us away from the age of philo-Semitism, the age in which both American Jews and the American-Israel relationship were considered special cases among the range of minority groups and foreign policy partnerships.This is what the left seems to want in the Omar controversy, and what I suspect it will eventually get: a left-of-center politics that remembers the Holocaust as one great historical tragedy among many, that judges Israel primarily on its conservative and nationalist political orientation, rather than on its status as a Jewish sanctuary, and that regards the success of American Jews as a reason for them to join white Gentiles in check-your-privilege self-criticism, ceding moral authority to minority groups who are more immediately oppressed. (This last shift was helpfully distilled by James Clyburn, the Democratic House whip, who defended Omar last week by basically saying that the Holocaust was a long time ago and her personal experience as a refugee and Muslim immigrant was more immediate and relevant.)The shifts here would not just be, as is sometimes suggested, a reaction to Israeli politics, to the right-wing Netanyahu government or the cruelties of occupation. If the occupation ended tomorrow, Israel would still have a nationalist and religious identity at odds with the lefts broadly post-nationalist and post-religious vision. Secularization would still be separating the left from any specifically Christian sense of guilt over the Holocaust  which was an important spur to postwar philo-Semitism. Many American Jews would still enjoy advantages that expose them to the lefts intersectional critiques, and the Orthodox Jewish population (growing apace relative to more secular and liberal forms of Judaism) would still have religious beliefs and practices that are the very opposite of woke.Finally, a great deal of the new anti-Semitism  from the recent wave of hate crimes in New York City to the anti-Jewish violence befouling Europe  would still be coming from minority and immigrant communities that are seen as essential to left-of-center and especially radical-left politics going forward, making them more difficult than right-wing anti-Semitism for the left to full-throatedly condemn.Of course right-wing anti-Semites havent gone away either  which is part of why anti-anti-Omar Democrats can tell themselves that by downgrading Jewish exceptionalism, trading a specific philo-Semitism for a general politics of all-bigotry-is-bad, they are asking liberal Jews to make a sacrifice thats essential for the greater good of defeating the greater enemy, which is still the reactionary right.Whether this argument works depends in part on what the post-Trump right ultimately becomes  whether theres a way to marry nationalism and philo-Semitism, perhaps wooing Jewish voters rightward, or whether any form of right-wing populism inevitably brings anti-Semitism roaring back.But it also depends on whether the assumptions of Omars left-wing defenders are justified  whether anti-Semitism can be contained if its treated as one form of bigotry among many, or whether the perverse resilience of Jew-hatred is such that cultures choose between philo-Semitism and anti-Semitism, with only a swift downward slope lying in between.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female.Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.

You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe CarpetbaggerBy Kyle BuchananThe Golden Globes provide the highest-profile pit stop on the way to the Academy Awards, and this years ceremony is perhaps the most advantageously timed edition yet: The day after NBC airs the Globes on Sunday, voting begins for the Oscar nominations. A win, then, will help contenders remain front of mind for academy members filling out their ballots on Monday, and there will be plenty of those winners to go around, since the Globes spread the wealth by splitting their biggest races into separate categories for dramas and comedy/musicals.Still, for as often as the Globes add their imprimatur to an already presumed Oscar front-runner, this show can still have upsets. The Globes are voted on by the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, a quirky group of around 90 journalists with only one academy member in its ranks. These individuals have their own tastes, and below, your Carpetbagger tries to think like an H.F.P.A. voter to guess the outcome of the 14 film races.[Follow our live updates: Heres what to expect from the Golden Globes ceremony.]Glenn Close, The WifeLady Gaga, A Star Is Born Nicole Kidman, DestroyerMelissa McCarthy, Can You Ever Forgive Me?Rosamund Pike, A Private WarThough the eventual Oscar race for best actress will probably include Olivia Colman for The Favourite, the Globes have her competing in the comedy category, so this particular contest will come down to the veteran Close and the pop star Gaga. Close is a 15-time Globe nominee whos won twice for television performances, while Gaga won the only Globe she was nominated for before, thanks to her performance in the 2015 TV show American Horror Story: Hotel. Globes voters know that Gaga would deliver a capital-M moment if she wins, and that will probably tip the scales in her favor.Bradley Cooper, A Star Is BornWillem Dafoe, At Eternitys GateLucas Hedges, Boy ErasedRami Malek, Bohemian RhapsodyJohn David Washington, BlacKkKlansmanWill A Star Is Born take home his-and-hers Globes? I would put my chips on Cooper to prevail, with one caveat: Voters adored Bohemian Rhapsody and could push Malek to a surprise win here. (And if youre wondering why this contest between two onscreen singers isnt taking place in the comedy-musical category, its because the filmmakers behind both movies opted to submit for the more prestigious drama category.)[Bradley Cooper was not really into this profile.]Black Panther BlacKkKlansman Bohemian Rhapsody If Beale Street Could Talk A Star Is BornThough Globes voters have made their fair share of wacky choices in the past, the group knows that recognizing Bohemian Rhapsody in this category would draw derision, especially since Bryan Singer, a magnet for controversy, was fired as director during production. A Star Is Born, then, should easily coast to victory.[Read our review of A Star Is Born.]Emily Blunt, Mary Poppins ReturnsOlivia Colman, The FavouriteElsie Fisher, Eighth GradeCharlize Theron, TullyConstance Wu, Crazy Rich AsiansThis race is between two Brits. Blunt is coming off a banner year that includes starring in A Quiet Place, and though Globes voters virtually shut out that horror film, its superhit status only adds strength to Blunts bid for Mary Poppins Returns. Meanwhile, Colmans turn as the addled queen in The Favourite has the most Oscar heat. While Blunt would be a practically perfect Globe winner, the H.F.P.A. will probably go for Colman, so as to seem more prescient.[Read our review of The Favourite.]Christian Bale, ViceLin-Manuel Miranda, Mary Poppins ReturnsViggo Mortensen, Green BookRobert Redford, The Old Man & the GunJohn C. Reilly, Stan & OllieAdam McKays Vice picked up the most Globes nods of any movie, so theres no reason to bet against Christian Bales performance as Dick Cheney here. Only Mortensen could put up a fight, but there is an easier category to come for voters who want to recognize Green Book.[How Christian Bale became Dick Cheney in Vice.]Crazy Rich Asians The Favourite Green Book Mary Poppins Returns ViceGlobes voters were clearly partial to Vice, but not long after the nominations were announced, the films review embargo broke and Vice got wildly mixed notices. Will that cool voters ardor? If so, the better-reviewed The Favourite is an easy pick.[Read our review of Vice.]Amy Adams, ViceClaire Foy, First ManRegina King, If Beale Street Could TalkEmma Stone, The FavouriteRachel Weisz, The FavouriteThough Adams has never won an Oscar, shes taken home two Golden Globes, including one for the largely forgotten Tim Burton film Big Eyes. In a year when Adams may have her strongest shot at the Academy Award, I suspect Globe voters will be inclined to throw their weight behind her.Mahershala Ali, Green Book Timothe Chalamet, Beautiful BoyAdam Driver, BlacKkKlansmanRichard E. Grant, Can You Ever Forgive Me?Sam Rockwell, ViceTwo years ago, when Ali picked up nearly every trophy under the sun for Moonlight, the Globes proved to be the outlier: Instead, the group gave its supporting-actor trophy to the Nocturnal Animals star Aaron Taylor-Johnson, who didnt even make Oscars final five. This year should prove to be a make-good for Ali, considered the Oscar front-runner for what is practically a co-lead in Green Book.Bradley Cooper, A Star Is BornAlfonso Cuarn, RomaPeter Farrelly, Green BookSpike Lee, BlacKkKlansmanAdam McKay, ViceNetflix hopes that Roma will be the streamers first nominee for best picture at the Oscars, but since its a foreign-language film, it wasnt eligible for best drama at the Globes, according to H.F.P.A. rules. Still, the film was allowed to compete in most other categories, and while lead Yalitza Aparicio didnt make it into the best-actress race, Cuarn still has so much industry heat that he could trump the first-time filmmaker Cooper.[Read our review of Roma.]Alfonso Cuarn, RomaDeborah Davis and Tony McNamara, The FavouriteBarry Jenkins, If Beale Street Could TalkAdam McKay, VicePeter Farrelly, Nick Vallelonga, Brian Currie, Green BookUnless Globes voters have decidedly switched allegiances to The Favourite, Id expect Vice to take the win in this category.Incredibles 2Isle of DogsMiraiRalph Breaks the InternetSpider-Man: Into the Spider-VerseIn the 12 years since the Globes have created this category, a Pixar film has prevailed eight times. That should bode well for Incredibles 2, which is the highest-grossing animated movie in history  and yet my Spidey sense is telling me there could be a potential upset. Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse is coming on strong as a year-end contender, and the people who love it evangelize about it in a way that is rare. Are enough of those fans in the Hollywood Foreign Press Association?CapernaumGirlNever Look AwayRomaShopliftersThis will be one of the nights easiest wins to call: No other foreign-language contender has the Oscar heat or the eight-figure awards-season spending of Roma.Marco Beltrami, A Quiet PlaceAlexandre Desplat, Isle of DogsLudwig Goransson, Black PantherJustin Hurwitz, First ManMarc Shaiman, Mary Poppins ReturnsIts still sort of outrageous to me that the incredible score for If Beale Street Could Talk wasnt nominated. To me, the only other score on its level is Hurwitzs for First Man, yet the Hollywood Foreign Press Association clearly wasnt that fond of the film. Could that allow the Globe to go to a different movie that might not win anything else, like Black Panther or Mary Poppins Returns? Id still bet on First Man, but another outcome wouldnt be surprising.All the Stars  Black PantherGirl in the Movies  DumplinRequiem for a Private War  A Private WarRevelation  Boy ErasedShallow  A Star Is BornThere is no way on Gagas green earth that Shallow will lose this Globe. If the presenter happens to read a different name, expect a phalanx of producers to storm the stage, just to make sure there hasnt been a Moonlight/La La Land mix-up.[In A Star Is Born, Lady Gaga pits pop against authenticity.]Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Maureen DowdOpinion ColumnistWASHINGTON  Roger Stone has always lived in a dog-eat-dog world.So it was apt that he was charged with skulduggery in part for threatening to kidnap a therapy dog, a fluffy, sweet-faced Coton de Tular, belonging to Randy Credico, a New York radio host.Robert Mueller believes that Credico, a pal of Julian Assange, served as an intermediary with WikiLeaks for Stone. Muellers indictment charges that Stone called Credico a rat and a stoolie because he believed that the radio host was not going to back up what the special counsel says is Stones false story about contacts with WikiLeaks, which disseminated Russias hacked emails from the D.N.C. and Hillary Clintons campaign chairman.Stone emailed Credico that he would take that dog away from you, the indictment says, later adding: I am so ready. Lets get it on. Prepare to die (expletive).As the owner of two Yorkies, Stone clearly knows how scary it is when a beloved dog is in harms way. When he emerged from court on Friday, he immediately complained that F.B.I. agents had terrorized his dogs when they came to arrest him at dawn at his home in Fort Lauderdale.The last thing Stone posted on Instagram before his arrest was a video of a terrier, with a high-pitched voice-over, protesting, Roger Stone did nothing wrong.Always bespoke and natty, living by the mantra that its better to be infamous than never famous, Stone looked strangely unadorned as he came out of court to meet the press in a navy polo shirt and bluejeans.As the master of darkness who had been captured in darkness stepped into the bright light of Fort Lauderdale, he was his usual flamboyant, unapologetically meretricious self. He proclaimed his innocence, flashed the Nixon victory sign and reiterated the old saw from his mentor, Roy Cohn, that any attention is good attention.But it fell flat. Being Roger Stone had finally caught up with him.He has always said Florida suited him because it was a sunny place for shady people, borrowing a Somerset Maugham line. But now the cats cradle of lies and dirty tricks had tripped up the putative dognapper. And it went down on the very same day that Paul Manafort  his former associate in a seamy lobbying firm with rancid dictators as clients, and then later his pal in the seamy campaign of Donald Trump  was also in federal court on charges related to the Mueller probe. Manaforts hair is now almost completely white.One of Stones rules  along with soaking his martini olives in vermouth and never wearing a double-breasted suit with a button-down collar  is Deny, deny, deny. But his arrest for lying, obstructing and witness tampering raised the inevitable question about his on-and-off friend in the White House, the man who is the last jigsaw-puzzle piece in the investigation of Trumpworlds alleged coordination with Russia: Is being Donald Trump finally about to catch up with Donald Trump?Stone, who famously has Nixons face tattooed on his back, is the agent provocateur who is the through line from the Nixon impeachment articles to the articles about Trumps possible impeachment.As Manafort said in the 2017 documentary Get Me Roger Stone, Trump and Stone see the world in a very similar way. And that way is theatrical and cynical. Do whatever you have to do to get what you want; playing by the rules is for suckers.In 1999, when I went on a trip to Miami to watch Trump test the presidential waters, Stone orchestrated Trumps Castro-bashing speech to Cuban-Americans. The bodybuilding, swinging strategist, christened the state-of-the-art sleazeball by The New Republic in the 80s, said he was a jockey looking for a horse.Stone, who was mixed up in Watergate at the tender age of 19, made the transition from the Stone Age of dirty tricks to today, as David Axelrod puts it.He watched Nixon rally the silent majority with a law-and-order message and racial dog whistling. He helped Ronald Reagan create Reagan Democrats.For decades, believing past is prologue, Stone urged Trump to be the successor to those pols, revving up angry, white working-class voters who felt belittled or scared of the other. It would be so easy to divide and stoke resentment, as Stone and Trump proved when they inflamed the birther controversy against Barack Obama.Hate is a stronger motivator than love, Stone told the documentarians. Human nature has never changed.The tribal tensions in America made Stones favorite tricks easier than ever; he didnt have to operate in the shadows. He wore a T-shirt with Bill Clinton and the word Rape at 2016 campaign rallies. As Stone boasted in the documentary, his slash-and-burn tactics are now in vogue.Trump has had periods of estrangement with Stone. In 2008, in an interview with The New Yorker, he called the strategist a stone-cold loser, a state Trump himself has been relegated to this past week, courtesy of Nancy Pelosi.Stone will not go gently. When he is asked about the tattoo of Nixon, he says he got it to remind himself, A man is not finished when he is defeated; he is only finished when he quits.At the moment, though, dogged by Mueller, Stone and Manafort are the dogs breakfast. The pair has given practicing the dark arts a bad name.An earlier version of this article misstated the conclusion of impeachment proceedings against Richard Nixon. He resigned before a House vote; he was not impeached.I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@MaureenDowd) and join me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. OpinionGail CollinsAdvertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisBy Peter BakerAfter nearly three years of investigation, after hundreds of interviews and thousands upon thousands of pages of documents, after scores of indictments and court hearings and guilty pleas, after endless hours of cable-television and dinner-table speculation, the moment of reckoning has arrived.It will be a reckoning for President Trump, to be sure, but also for Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, for Congress, for Democrats, for Republicans, for the news media and, yes, for the system as a whole. The delivery of Mr. Muellers report to the Justice Department on Friday marked a turning point that will shape the remainder of Mr. Trumps presidency and test the viability of American governance.Washington has been waiting for Mr. Muellers findings for so long and invested in them so much that it may be hard for what he has delivered to live up to the breathless anticipation. But once released, the Mueller report will transform the political landscape, fueling calls for the presidents impeachment or providing him fodder to claim vindication  or possibly, in this live-in-your-own-reality moment, both at the same time.Democrats on Friday played down the notion that the report would be the final word, fearing that anything less than a bombshell would undercut their own drive to investigate Mr. Trump not only on Russias election interference but on the myriad other subjects that have drawn their attention. Mr. Trump, for his part, had engaged in a particularly manic Twitter spree lately, assailing the witch hunt and the hoax and everyone he blames for them, like his fellow Republicans John McCain and Jeff Sessions, in what some had interpreted as a sign of his own anxiety before the special counsels verdict. But he was reported to appear relieved with early reports on Friday.The fact that Mr. Mueller issued no further indictments as he wrapped up on Friday and never charged any Americans alleging criminal conspiracy between the Trump campaign and Russia emboldened the presidents Republican allies, who promptly interpreted the results as exonerating him without having seen the report itself.Here are some pieces of the jigsaw puzzle. The full picture is missing.Yet whatever the final conclusions, the Mueller investigation has already cast a cloud over Mr. Trump and his presidency. The special counsel has demonstrated that Russia intervened in the 2016 election with the goal of helping Mr. Trump, that the Trump campaign welcomed Russians promising incriminating information on behalf of their government about Hillary Clinton and that his advisers knew about stolen Democratic emails in advance.The investigation has demonstrated as well that Mr. Trump was seeking to do business in Russia even as a presidential candidate longer than he had previously disclosed and that he surrounded himself with crooks and liars in the form of advisers who repeatedly dissembled to investigators. That includes his campaign chairman, who is going to prison for that and a variety of financial crimes.Whether any of that adds up to impeachable offenses remained an open question. Mr. Trump has repeated the phrase no collusion so often  71 times on Twitter, according to the Trump Twitter Archive, and many more in speeches, interviews and other public statements  that he effectively set the bar so that anything short of a taped telephone conversation with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia could be interpreted as vindication.[Read more: As Mueller report lands, prosecutorial focus moves to New York.] Moreover, the president and his allies have raised enough questions about the conduct of his investigators to convince many of his supporters that the real scandal is the deep state trying to thwart the will of the democratic system by dislodging him from office. The people pursuing him, Mr. Trump argues, are motivated by partisanship or personal bias.He has complained on Twitter about the witch hunt 183 times, according to the archive, and many more in other settings, including to reporters on Friday morning before leaving the White House for a long weekend in Florida. A poll by USA Today and Suffolk University found that 50 percent of Americans agreed that Mr. Muellers inquiry was a witch hunt and that Mr. Trump had been subjected to more investigations than previous presidents because of politics.And yet the swirl of scandal around Mr. Trump extends well beyond Mr. Muellers inquiry, which was largely limited to issues related to Russias election interference and any efforts by the president or his aides to obstruct the investigation. Other federal, state and congressional investigations are looking into his various entities and allies, including his business, his inaugural organization and his foundation.Federal prosecutors in New York have already implicated the president in a scheme to violate campaign finance laws by arranging hush payments to keep two women from publicly discussing their claims to have had extramarital affairs with Mr. Trump before the 2016 election, affairs he has denied.Mr. Trump has also been accused of cheating on his taxes, violating the Constitutions emoluments clause barring a president from taking money from foreign states, exaggerating his true wealth to obtain bank financing and other offenses. The sheer volume of allegations lodged against Mr. Trump and his circle defies historical parallel, possibly eclipsing, if they were all proved true, even Watergate, the nonpareil scandal of scandals.[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]But none of the investigations has carried the authority or import of Mr. Muellers, in part because of his longstanding reputation in both parties as a straight shooter and in part because of the investigatory tools at his disposal. The assessment by Mr. Mueller, a lifelong Republican, decorated Vietnam War hero and former F.B.I. director under Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama, could go far, particularly with Republicans who may doubt other investigators.So at last some questions should be answered or at least addressed: Is there more to the story of Russias involvement in the election than is already publicly known? Did the Trump campaign cross lines that others have not before? Has the president used his power to improperly impede investigators? Or have Democrats assumed too much in their zeal to bring Mr. Trump down? Have journalists connected too many dots that do not really add up? Can there be conclusions that are widely accepted in such a polarized era?Some of the answers may start to become clear as soon as this weekend when Attorney General William P. Barr briefs congressional leaders on its principal conclusions. He will then have to decide whether to publicly release the report and, if so, how much.That will not be the end of the story, though, because Congress, at least the Democrat-controlled House, made clear on Friday that it will insist on seeing most everything. That could lead to a showdown between executive and legislative branches if Mr. Barr seeks to withhold parts of the report, one that potentially could be resolved by the third branch, the judiciary, in a constitutional showdown.No report has been as anticipated in Washington since September 1998, when the independent counsel Ken Starr delivered to Congress the results of his investigation concluding that President Bill Clinton had committed impeachable offenses, with boxes of evidence transported to Capitol Hill in a pair of white vans trailed by news cameras as if they were O.J. Simpsons Ford Bronco.Mr. Starr, in his case, was obligated by the law creating his office to report directly to Congress, which then voted on a bipartisan basis to release his report sight unseen, much to the chagrin of many lawmakers once they saw its explicit description of the sexual encounters between Mr. Clinton and Monica S. Lewinsky that formed the basis for perjury and obstruction of justice charges.Mr. Mueller, by contrast, operated under a different legal basis, reporting to the attorney general. But the question of what constitutes high crimes and misdemeanors, as laid out in the Constitution for impeachment, remains exclusively the province of the House, now as then in the hands of the presidents political opposition.Taking a lesson in part from the Clinton impeachment effort, which demonstrated that impeachment succeeds in ending a presidency only if it is bipartisan, Speaker Nancy Pelosi has said she does not favor impeaching Mr. Trump because it would be divisive for the country, which she declared is just not worth it.In saying that any impeachment should be so compelling and overwhelming and bipartisan, she was tacitly recognizing that while the Democratic House might vote for articles of impeachment, it would take at least 20 Republican senators to break with the president to muster the two-thirds vote required to remove him from office, which at the moment appears implausible.The real question, then, becomes whether Mr. Mueller has any evidence that is so damning, so definitive and so powerful that it changes that dynamic.Follow Peter Baker on Twitter: @peterbakernyt.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byletterA reader says Donald Trump would not have been elected if she and the millions like her had their economic interests defended as they once did.To the Editor:I thought that I knew the narrative of my middle-class life, and so was surprised to recognize myself in Alissa Quarts article The Power of the Middle-Class Shame Vote (Sunday Review, Jan. 6).In my 30s, I had excellent health insurance through my union. When I changed professions and became self-employed, I had to buy a family policy from the open market. Ive felt ashamed for not knowing that premiums would eat a quarter, then a third, of my gross income.Company-paid insurance was once standard in collective bargaining agreements, with many nonunion companies forced to follow suit. With the shrinking of unions, the middle class lost paid health coverage, eventually plunging many people into medical debt. We also lost a powerful political force that educated millions of working people to vote for candidates who would represent their interests. Otherwise, Donald Trump could not have been elected.Nancy StiefelSunnyside, QueensAdvertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn BullockGood morning. Venezuelas opposition plans a dramatic next move, Chinese and Iranian hackers step up anti-U.S. efforts and Facebook is excoriated in a British report. Heres the latest: The Trump administration and the Venezuelan opposition have a plan to weaken President Nicols Maduro: getting desperately needed food and medicine into the country.On Saturday, the two forces are set to unleash an ambitious, coordinated land-and-sea effort to move supplies through Colombia, Brazil and Curaao and into the hands of thousands of Venezuelans.At a rally in Florida, President Trump contentiously framed the struggle as against socialism broadly. In Venezuela, and across the Western Hemisphere, socialism is dying and liberty, prosperity and democracy are being reborn, he said. We seek a peaceful transition of power, but all options are open.Ahead: The opposition has not said how it will break past Mr. Maduros blockade, saying that releasing plans would allow him to stymie the effort. Some activists have suggested simply smuggling the aid in. Others say protesters from Venezuela could overrun soldiers. Risk: Mr. Maduro has sent troops to the border, and tensions over the aid are high. One analyst warned of the possibility of a hair-trigger moment. And embracing Mr. Trump could make the opposition leader, Juan Guaid, look like a U.S. puppet. Dozens of American corporations and government agencies have been hit by attacks that have been attributed to Iran, according to analysts at the National Security Agency and the private security firm FireEye.Those cyberattacks coincide with a renewed effort by China to steal trade and military secrets from U.S. military contractors and technology companies that include Boeing, General Electric and T-Mobile, according to nine intelligence officials, private security researchers and lawyers familiar with the attacks.Context: Cyberespionage from both Iran and China had cooled under former President Barack Obama, who reached landmark agreements with both in 2015. The attacks spiked again after President Trump opened a trade war with Beijing and reneged on the Iran nuclear deal last year.France is having a crisis of conscience about its perennial and growing problem of anti-Semitism after Alain Finkielkraut, one of the countrys leading essayists and critics from the right, was mobbed by Yellow Vest protesters near his Paris home over the weekend and assailed with anti-Semitic insults. The son of an Auschwitz survivor, he was told to Go home to Israel!Mr. Finkielkraut renounced his support for the Yellow Vest movement last week, attracting the ire of its members. Fueled by economic and class resentments, the protesters have previously given off whiffs of anti-Semitism, with coded conspiracy theories about Jewish influence circulating at the edges of the movement. The police are investigating the invective against Mr. Finkielkraut, who has been accused of prejudice himself over his views on immigration. By the numbers: Episodes of anti-Semitism in France jumped 74 percent last year, to 541, up from 311 in 2017, according to government data. (There has also been an uptick in New York.)In Britain: Seven lawmakers resigned from the Labour Party to become independents, one of them accusing Jeremy Corbyn, the Labour leader, of tolerating anti-Semitism in the party, and others denouncing him for refusing to call for a new referendum on Brexit. Decades after the crisis of clerical sexual abuse of minors first exploded into public view, victims of sexual abuse have arrived in Rome for a landmark meeting Pope Francis is holding with representatives of the worlds bishops conferences.The victims will speak of their experiences during evening prayers. Context: The meeting comes as more instances of sexual abuse emerge, including the long-overshadowed abuse of nuns by priests. A Times investigation found that the crisis even goes beyond abuse to the suppression and shaming of homosexual priests. And the Vatican revealed to The Times that it has general guidelines for what to do when clerics break celibacy vows and father children. Some of those children will be at the meeting.Over the weekend: Pope Francis expelled a former cardinal and archbishop of Washington from the priesthood after the church found him guilty of sexually abusing minors and adult seminarians. The former cardinal, Theodore McCarrick, was the first Catholic leader at that level to be defrocked for sexual abuse.In the Southern Baptist church: The largest evangelical denomination in the U.S. announced initial recommendations for addressing revelations of rife sexual abuse in Southern Baptist churches across the country.Facebook: After an 18-month investigation, a British parliamentary committee issued a scathing report accusing the social media company of breaking data privacy and competition laws. Trump vs. Europe: At a security conference in Munich last week, the rift between Europe and the Trump administration became open, angry and concrete, diplomats and analysts say. Leaders and officials from across the continent, particularly Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, laced into the Trump administrations foreign policy and warned that U.S. isolationism would embolden Russia and China.Brexit: Wall Streets biggest banks, including Bank of America, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, are shifting their operations from London to European capitals, reshaping the financial industry across the continent. And Honda said it would close its plant in Swindon, which employs 3,500 workers, by 2021.Yemen: Houthi fighters have left a million unmarked land mines across much of the country, stalling the onslaught of Saudi-backed forces but also killing and maiming civilians. U.S.: A coalition of 16 states, including California and New York, challenged President Trump in court over his plan to use emergency powers to spend billions of dollars on his border wall.Poland: After Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel said on Thursday that the Poles cooperated with the Nazis in the Holocaust, Polands president withdrew on Monday from a trip to Israel that was planned with the leaders of three other East European countries. Kashmir: Militants in the disputed region killed an Indian Army major and at least three other soldiers just days after carrying out a bombing that left more than 40 Indian paramilitary officers dead. The attacks have unleashed jingoism across India and raised the specter of conflict with Pakistan. Transportation: Virgin Hyperloop One, a company based in Los Angeles and partly backed by Sir Richard Branson, is testing a mass transit system that would put passengers in pods speeding through vacuum tubes at more than 600 miles per hour.  While such visions are a distant dream, hyperloop companies have attracted key talent and enthusiastic municipalities.Technology: The founder of the Chinese technology giant Huawei, breaking from the companys previous silence about U.S. criminal charges against the company and his daughter, a top executive, called the case against her politically motivated.Is the game called tag, tig, tick or it? Dive into our British-Irish dialect quiz.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Leave the measuring spoons aside for a simple roast fish with ginger, scallions and soy. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recipe recommendations.)Jogging for 15 minutes a day, or walking or gardening for somewhat longer periods, could help fend off depression.We get it, were all busy. But real, meaningful relationships thrive when theyre face-to-face. Its as simple as making time for them.Puccinis Madama Butterfly is one of the most popular operas ever written. It would have been pretty amazing to be at its premiere, which was given this week in 1904, right?Undoubtedly  because it was one of the great fiascos in opera history.The premiere, at the storied Teatro alla Scala in Milan, was often drowned out by what one critic described as groans, roars, moos, laughs, bellows, sneers. The New York Times reported that the opera had been received rather coldly.Puccini compared the experience to a lynching. Some believed rivals had organized claques to embarrass him. Others cited the operas difficult subject matter: An unsympathetic American naval lieutenant impregnates and abandons a Japanese teenager, later driving her to suicide.After several revisions  including a new remorseful aria to soften the lieutenant  Butterfly became a hit. (The challenge in staging it these days has more to do with avoiding Orientalism and cultural appropriation.)And in 2016, La Scala staged the rarely seen original version, in a symbolic act of contrition.Michael Cooper, a Times reporter who covers classical music and dance, wrote todays Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and heres our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byPresident Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey should look at the silver lining.By Patrick ChappatteMr. Chappatte is an editorial cartoonist.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.Patrick Chappatte is an editorial cartoonist for The New York Times. Viewmore of his work, visit hiswebsiteor follow him onTwitter.  @PatChappatte Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Heres the sign-up, if you dont already get California Today by email.) If you werent already confused about the status of Californias controversial bullet train after Gov. Gavin Newsoms State of the State address, you might be soon.During his speech last week, the governor said the high-speed rail network as it was initially envisioned  as a link between Los Angeles and the Bay Area  was taking too long and costing too much. So, he announced, the project would be scaled back for the time being, instead stretching from Bakersfield to Merced.Eventually, Mr. Newsom backtracked and blamed the news media for overstating the change of plan.But not before President Trump seized the opportunity to hammer a favorite target, tweeting that California has been forced to cancel the massive bullet train project, and saying that the federal government wanted back $3.5 billion.(Read more about the long-running debate over Californias bullet train here.)That was a week ago, before a new battle between the president and the Golden State took shape. This time, it was over Mr. Trumps declaration of a national emergency on the border in order to access more money for a border wall. California and 15 other states sued, arguing that the move was an illegal way of diverting funds that Congress designated for other things.Our message to the White House is clear: California will not be part of this political theater, Mr. Newsom said in a statement in support of the legal action.Yesterday, though, the tension escalated when the Transportation Department said it was exploring legal options to force California to pay back $2.5 billion in federal money that has already been spent on the project. The Trump administration said in a separate letter that it planned to end a $929 million grant to the California High-Speed Rail Authority.Both Mr. Newsom and President Trump linked the fight over the border wall with the renewed efforts to claw back rail funding.This is clear political retribution by President Trump, and we wont sit idly by, Mr. Newsom said in a statement. This is Californias money, and we are going to fight for it.President Trump tweeted that what he described as Californias failed Fast Train system is hundreds of times more expensive than the desperately needed Wall!Still, its not clear whether the federal government has the authority to keep the $929 million grant from California.Which means that the fight over the bullet train  like so many of the clashes between the Trump administration and California  is likely to end up in court.(We often link to content on sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but wed also encourage you to support local news if you can.) Kaiser Permanente is opening a medical school, and the first five graduating classes wont have to pay tuition. Officials say they hope itll persuade prospective students to stick with family medicine or other specialties that are important but lower paying. [The New York Times] The country could enter a recession this year. But if it does, housing is unlikely to be the culprit because it never really recovered in the first place. [The New York Times] Their situation can almost be worse, sometimes, than people whose homes are gone. Even for people whose homes survived the devastating Camp Fire, going back to Paradise is a challenge; insurers are not renewing their policies. [NPR] A Los Angeles judge sided with media organizations and transparency advocates in ruling that a new law opening more police conduct records applies retroactively. [The Los Angeles Times] San Francisco was handed a $185 million budget windfall. Mayor London Breed got much of what she wanted in a spending plan for it that passed the board of supervisors this week. But it was a compromise, so no one was totally happy. [The San Francisco Chronicle] King, the wire fox terrier who recently won the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show, was trained in the Inland Empire by a handler whos trained show dogs since he was 15. When you see a special one, you can tell right away, he said. [LAist] What was Little Tokyo like during Japanese internment? The community tells the story of downtown Los Angeles. [Boom California] News media coverage of President Richard Nixons visit to China, where he was served dishes like Peking duck, revolutionized American conceptions of Chinese food. The Reagans were new to the White House, but their time in Hollywood taught them how to throw a good party. Thats all in this history of state dinners. [Foreign Policy] All of Californias nearly 1,200 public libraries are now offering free access to NYTimes.com to card holders. Heres more about the program, which will also include monthly events. (Not to mention access to newsletters like the one youre reading now.) [The New York Times] Its not at a library, but The Times is hosting a talk at San Franciscos Curran theater. Miriam Jordan and Kirk Semple, Times journalists, will talk about immigration with experts ahead of the run of a show that takes place in a refugee camp called The Jungle. Get tickets here. [The Curran]As a person of Japanese descent, my feelings about the place of Japanese culture in America have always been a bit complicated.The lines between admiration and fetishization, homage and appropriation never seem to be as clear as I wish they were. (Can I still appreciate the pop pleasures of Ariana Grandes music after her recent kanji tattoo blunder? I kind of love Blade Runner 2049, but should I?)Thats why I was so fascinated by this Times mini-documentary about a thriving Chicano subculture  in Japan.Walter Thompson-Hernndez wrote about growing up in Los Angeles and, years later, finding out that there are people across the world who show off lowriders and dress like kids he knew in middle school.In this case, Walter grapples with whether the Japanese are appropriating his culture. Ultimately, he writes, it was more of a form of cultural exchange  a mingling that resulted in something totally new.California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles  but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisBy Peter BakerWASHINGTON  President Trump famously declared that in his administration the nation would become tired of all the winning. So on Friday he tried a little losing.After the longest government shutdown in history, Mr. Trump surrendered with nothing concrete (or steel) to show for the battle, taking essentially the same deal that was on the table in December that he originally rejected, touching off a 35-day impasse.With Senator Mitch McConnell on the telephone, rank-and-file Republicans in revolt and televisions in the White House showing air traffic slowing in the Northeast because of the shutdown, Mr. Trump bowed to the inevitable and agreed to reopen the government until Feb. 15 without the money for his border wall that he had demanded.For a president who believes in zero-sum politics and considers compromise a sign of weakness, it was a bruising setback, a retreat that underscored the limits of his ability to bull his way through the opposition in this new era of divided government. As it turned out, the art of the deal at this stage of Mr. Trumps presidency requires a different approach and the question is whether he can adjust.By any measure, it was an unequivocal loss, said Patrick J. Griffin, who was the White House legislative director for President Bill Clinton during the government shutdowns of the 1990s. No interpretation is needed. No wall and probably lost votes rather than gain or strengthen his base.[Some conservatives accused President Trump of folding on a central promise.]The next three weeks will test whether Mr. Trump can rebound as he faces a new deadline to come up with an agreement. If he can find common ground with Democrats led by Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer while making progress on his wall, he may yet emerge from this searing ordeal claiming a political victory.If not, however, he may discover his disgruntled fellow Republicans on Capitol Hill less willing to go along with a renewed government shutdown, forcing him to decide whether to provoke a constitutional clash by declaring a national emergency to bypass Congress altogether and build the wall without legislative approval.White House officials argue that there are more moderate House Democrats who are willing to support a wall even though Ms. Pelosi has called the project immoral and opposed spending even a single dollar on it. In the days to come, they hope to either peel off those Democrats and force Ms. Pelosi to meet somewhere in the middle or to drive a wedge among Democrats highlighting their own divisions.Moving forward for the next three weeks, have the Democrats boxed themselves into a corner with zero for wall funding that makes them look weak on border security? asked Marc Short, who was Mr. Trumps White House legislative director earlier in his presidency. Will the White House be able to work around Pelosi to gain enough Democrat support for some wall funding?After watching Ms. Pelosi this week disinvite Mr. Trump from delivering the State of the Union address while the government remained closed, Mr. McConnell concluded that she would never cave and decided to come off the sidelines to try to end the standoff. He scheduled votes for Thursday on two plans to end the stalemate, one on Mr. Trumps terms and another Democratic version, mainly to demonstrate to the president that he did not have enough support to prevail.After both bills failed to muster the 60 votes required for passage on Thursday, Mr. Trump was fed up and ready to get it over with, according to advisers. He was eager to get the dispute resolved at least temporarily so he could deliver his State of the Union address. He told Vice President Mike Pence and Jared Kushner, his son-in-law and senior adviser, to give him options.They came back with four ways to reopen the government: a three-week spending bill that included a prorated portion of money as a down payment on the border wall pending further negotiations; a clean short-term spending bill that included no such money; a clean short-term bill with a bipartisan House-Senate conference committee to negotiate border security; or a declaration of national emergency that Mr. Trump would use to move money on his own while resuming government operations for the rest of the fiscal year.Mr. McConnell met with Mr. Schumer and raised the idea of a down payment, but the Democrat rejected it. Mr. Schumer then suggested a short-term spending bill with a conference committee to negotiate. Mr. McConnell let the White House know that Mr. Schumer would sign onto that.As late as Friday morning, though, Mr. Trump appeared set to make an emergency declaration. But when he spoke with Mr. McConnell again, the senator and Mr. Kushner argued against it. Mr. Trump backed off and agreed to the short-term reopening without wall money, telling aides that he knew it would result in a bad news cycle for several days, but that it was the right thing to do and would eventually yield a long-term victory.His resolve to change the subject was fortified as he watched television on Friday morning to see his associate Roger J. Stone Jr. marched off to court by heavily armed F.B.I. agents arresting him in connection with the special counsels Russia investigation. The icing on the cake, as one official put it, were reports about air traffic out of La Guardia Airport in the presidents hometown and elsewhere in the region slowing because of the government shutdown.The president scheduled an announcement, and the scene in the Rose Garden was surreal. Cabinet officers and White House aides lined up and applauded when the president emerged from the Oval Office as if he were declaring victory in his confrontation with Democrats in Congress. And the president sounded as if he was doing just that, opening his remarks by saying that he was very proud to announce today that we have reached a deal to end the shutdown.Only there was no deal, just a retreat. The president who said he would never reopen the government unless he secured money for his border wall agreed to reopen the government without money for his border wall.Supporters of a wall were hardly fooled, excoriating Mr. Trump for giving in. Good news for George Herbert Walker Bush: As of today, he is no longer the biggest wimp ever to serve as President of the United States, Ann Coulter, the conservative commentator who prodded Mr. Trump to take a firmer stand in December, wrote on Twitter.Breitbart News, the conservative news site once run by Stephen K. Bannon, the presidents former senior adviser, made clear the disappointment among Mr. Trumps base with its banner headline: Government Open ... And Border. No Wall. So did The Daily Caller, another leading voice on the right: TRUMP CAVES. And The Washington Examiner agreed: Trump blinks.Democrats were not exactly gracious in victory, barely containing their delight. Hopefully, it means a lesson has been learned: Shutting down government over a policy difference is self-defeating, tut-tutted Mr. Schumer. It accomplishes nothing but pain and suffering for the country and the American people.By late in the day, a defensive Mr. Trump was insisting it was not a defeat. I wish people would read or listen to my words on the Border Wall, he tweeted. This was in no way a concession. It was taking care of millions of people who were getting badly hurt by the Shutdown with the understanding that in 21 days, if no deal is done, its off to the races!Until now, of course, he had expressed little if any concern for those hurt by the shutdown, insisting instead that many of the 800,000 who went without pay for five weeks were on his side and wanted him to stand strong. Whether this episode prompts Mr. Trump to change his approach to governing, it has altered the politics of shutdowns leaving federal workers caught in the middle.The great irony is that the shutdown only proved the indispensable value of the very government Trump so often expresses such disdain for, said Paul Bledsoe, a former Clinton White House aide who is now the strategic adviser at the Progressive Policy Institute, a center-left research organization.Mr. Short, the former aide to Mr. Trump, said history had shown that government shutdowns could be hazardous to ones political health. Most people who have initiated shutdowns find its a hard negotiating position to be working from, he said.As Mr. Trump has now discovered, whether he acknowledges it or not.Maggie Haberman and Nicholas Fandos contributed reporting.Follow Peter Baker on Twitter: @peterbakernyt.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Zach WichterGeneral Motors is moving to widen its lineup of electric cars, and adding jobs in the process.The automaker said Friday that it would begin producing a new electric vehicle as part of its Chevrolet lineup, resulting in the addition of 400 jobs at its plant in Orion Township, Mich.The vehicle will share some characteristics with the all-electric Chevrolet Bolt EV, a small wagon that is already produced at the Orion factory, the company said in a statement. The addition of the vehicle will be accompanied by an investment in the plant of about $300 million. The company did not offer any other details about the new vehicle.G.M. has said since 2017 that it planned to substantially expand its lineup of all-electric cars. The push comes as other carmakers, including Hyundai and Audi, prepare to unveil new plug-in hybrids and fully electric models in a bet that car owners are ready to switch from gasoline-powered vehicles.Its an ongoing story of just trying to get realigned with where they see the business going in the future, said Jeff Windau, an equity analyst at Edward Jones. This is a capital-intensive business, and it takes time for the investments to be made and for the products to start being manufactured.In an appearance on CNBC, G.M.s chief executive, Mary T. Barra, said it would take one or two years for the new vehicle to reach the market.Competition in the electric-vehicle market is increasing. Ford announced this week that it would invest $900 million in Michigan to increase production of autonomous and electric cars in the coming years.Both G.M. and Ford seem to be trying to chip away at Teslas hold on the electric vehicle market. Even as Elon Musks company expands its fleet, its sales seem to be slowing. A federal tax credit for electric vehicles was recently reduced for Tesla buyers after the company reached a sales threshold, but customers buying electric vehicles from other automakers still qualify for the higher reimbursement.G.M. announced its new vehicle several days after President Trump criticized the automaker on Twitter over its decision to end production at a factory in Lordstown, Ohio. The plant is one of five in North America that the company said in November it would idle as part of a broader effort to cut costs.G.M. said Friday that it had around 2,700 job openings at its factories and that it was trying to fill the vacancies with employees affected by the shutdowns at Lordstown and elsewhere. The company said 1,100 employees from idled plants had already been placed at other factories.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Eileen SullivanWASHINGTON  The long-awaited special counsel report is complete, 675 days after Robert S. Mueller III was named to oversee the investigation into Russias election interference, whether  any Trump associates coordinated with that plot and whether President Trump tried to obstruct justice. Attorney General William P. Barr has the document and notified lawmakers. But it has yet to be made public, and the path to its potential release  or the release of the facts it contains  is complicated.That remains to be seen. Some information is expected to come out because Mr. Barr has to update Congress, but that does not mean the entire report will be public.Mr. Barr sent a letter to the leaders of Congresss judiciary committees that the special counsel investigation has been completed, which he is required to do, according to the special counsel regulation. Mr. Barr said that he was reviewing Mr. Muellers report and might be able to provide lawmakers with the special counsels principal conclusions as early as this weekend.The regulation also requires that Mr. Barr tell the lawmakers whether he or his predecessors overseeing it opposed any significant step that Mr. Mueller sought to take. Mr. Barr said there were no such instances during the investigation.The special counsel regulation sets no time frame or deadline for when Mr. Barr must provide this information to Congress.Mr. Barr is required only to provide lawmakers with very basic facts. He would be operating within the guidelines of the regulation if he were to give Congress a bare-bones notification that Mr. Mueller had concluded his work. In his letter on Friday, Mr. Barr said he planned to consult with the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, and Mr. Mueller about what other details from the report could be given to Congress and the public.According to the Justice Departments explanation of the regulation, published in the Federal Register in 1999, Mr. Barr has to determine whether releasing the report, or portions of it, is in the publics interest. Mr. Barr has said repeatedly that he would release as much as he could from the report within the parameters of the special counsel regulations.But, first, Mr. Barr and his aides will have to review the report to determine whether any information is classified or otherwise sensitive, or protected by privacy laws or executive privilege, which can be invoked for sensitive law enforcement materials.The back and forth on what information Congress can and cannot have will most likely be drawn out and have to be resolved by a court.No.Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the top Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, has already called for the entire report, without redactions, to be provided to lawmakers.Regulations governing Special Counsel Muellers investigation do not prohibit Attorney General Barr from disclosing Muellers final report and investigative materials to Congress, Ms. Feinstein said in February.And the House overwhelmingly passed a resolution calling for the report to be made public  a largely symbolic move to pressure Mr. Barr publicly to release it.Democrats in the House have also already made the case that seeing the report in its entirety is critical to their ability to conduct oversight and determine whether to move forward with impeachment proceedings.Congress could be the only institution currently situated to act on evidence of the presidents misconduct, the chairmen of several House committees wrote in a Feb. 22 letter to Mr. Barr.Further, they wrote, Congress should decide what should be redacted in the report.Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California has said that she does not support impeaching Mr. Trump without support from Republican lawmakers because it is too divisive for the country. Barring new shocking revelations about Mr. Trump, Democrats would prefer to beat Mr. Trump in the 2020 presidential election.Lawmakers have a few options to try to make public details of the investigation, though some could involve years of litigation.They could start issuing subpoenas to Mr. Barr, who could ignore them or refuse them. They could also subpoena Mr. Muellers testimony. The Justice Department is likely to resist those demands.If that happens, lawmakers could hold them in contempt and ask the United States attorney for the District of Columbia to prosecute. Lawmakers could also sue to try to force the Trump administration to hand over the requested material. Such litigation could go on for years.Here are some pieces of the jigsaw puzzle. The full picture is missing.The White House could also try to negotiate with Congress, such as making some witnesses available, but not all, said Richard H. Pildes, a constitutional law professor at New York University Law School. The White House is also likely to challenge some requests and assert that the requested information is available to lawmakers through other means.Lawmakers can also use their bully pulpits to pressure Mr. Barr publicly for more information and tie up the Justice Department in hearings and subpoena fights that last for the rest of Mr. Trumps time in office.That is not clear.Mr. Trump is Mr. Barrs boss, and there is nothing to stop Mr. Barr from immediately sharing the report with the White House, Mr. Pildes said. But doing so would violate the Justice Departments longstanding independence from the White House, said Jack L. Goldsmith, a Harvard Law professor who ran the departments Office of Legal Counsel during the George W. Bush administration.And if the Mueller report includes grand jury testimony, which is protected under federal law, the number of people permitted to see the report shrinks significantly. Mr. Trump, as president, would be permitted to see it in certain circumstances.For example, according to a 1993 opinion by the Justice Departments Office of Legal Counsel, grand jury information may be disclosed to the president if it relates to his role in helping the department decide how to enforce the law, or if it relates to a national security threat.In another Justice Department legal opinion, written in 2000, the president may have access to grand jury material if it is used as part of his consideration for a pardon. There has been a great deal of discussion about whether Mr. Trump would give presidential pardons to his former aides who have been charged in Mr. Muellers investigation, such as Paul Manafort, his former campaign chairman who was sentenced to a total of seven and a half years in prison in two cases.Even if Mr. Mueller and Mr. Barr know that what Mr. Trump is saying publicly is not true, there is no apparent legal duty for the Justice Department to correct the president.Unlikely.First, collusion has no legal definition, though it has become a term of art as a shorthand reference to the Russia investigation.A key question in the special counsel investigation concerns whether Mr. Trump or his campaign was coordinating with Russia to try to affect the outcome of the 2016 presidential election. If Mr. Muellers investigation ends without charging Mr. Trump or his aides with conspiracy, some may interpret that to be a no collusion finding.Mr. Trump consistently cites government officials and the lack of collusion charges as evidence that there was never collusion between his campaign and Russia.Charlie Savage and Katie Benner contributed reporting.OpinionNoah BookbinderOpinionThe Editorial BoardAdvertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders object to a plan to privatize the V.A. system. To the Editor: Re Privatize Care for Vets, by Anuradha Bhagwati (Op-Ed, Feb. 4):Ms. Bhagwatis problems are unfortunate, but it is not surprising that occasional patients in this vast system have medical experiences that are personally unsatisfactory. The great majority of patients find their care at V.A. facilities more than satisfactory. An eligible person who requests a first-time V.A. outpatient appointment must receive one within 30 days and is usually seen sooner if mental health problems are concerned. The V.A.s computerized record-keeping system is one of the best in the country, and medical records from distant facilities are instantly available. Our costs are lower(physicians salaries; drugs and medical supplies bought in large quantities; expensive and unnecessary tests and procedures avoided), and our outcomes (complications and mortality for certain conditions and procedures, length of hospital stay) match or better those elsewhere in the United States.Charges to patients, if any, are preset, minimal and determined by ability to pay. The V.A. is a leader in American medical care. Its problems should be addressed and corrected. It should not be weakened or destroyed by privatization. Samuel L. RosenthalLarchmont, N.Y.The writer is an internist at the New York Harbor V.A. Medical Center.To the Editor:As a psychiatric nurse-practitioner and service member, and as a psychiatrist in the V.A. system, respectively, we are concerned that the perspective of this article may deter female veterans from receiving V.A. treatment.We are dedicated to providing trauma-informed care for veterans regardless of race, gender or sexual identification.Current initiatives support the growing female and L.G.B.T.Q. veteran population. Some of this is evidenced in our Womens Clinic, access to female providers in a variety of subspecialties, and strides in Military Sexual Trauma identification and treatment.In our own practice and experience, we do not see this as consistent with a hypermasculine military culture. It would be an injustice if the opinion presented in this article served as a deterrent to treatment for other female veterans who are considering V.A. services now, or in the future.Amy RobertsShuba RodriguesWest Haven, Conn.To the Editor:Re V.A. Rule Would Broaden Access to Private Health Care for Some Veterans (news article, Jan. 31):The Department of Veterans Affairs has begun to shift tremendous resources, measured in billions, away from publicly provided  and therefore publicly accountable  medical and surgical care.Precisely the wrong direction!What is the big problem at the publicly run veterans hospitals and clinics? Cynically underfund a great public service and then advertise only its failures, while ignoring its fundamental and irrefutable successes.The V.A. should not be torn down, but defended and expanded  on history, on principle and especially on its superlative health outcomes. Instead of privatization, we should demand expansion of the V.A.We desperately need a national health program. We should see in the V.A. system a foundation for a national health service, able to offer excellent and accountable care for everyone in the United States.Andrew D. CoatesDelmar, N.Y. The writer, an assistant professor of medicine and psychiatry at Albany Medical College, is a past president of Physicians for a National Health Program.To the Editor:The Trump administration has embarked upon partial privatization of V.A. health care. Other superior options still available for the V.A. include increased staffing of V.A. physicians and health personnel, extended V.A. clinic hours, including evenings and weekends, and adding drop-in clinics in V.A. health facilities. Such changes would prove more efficient and less costly, and provide greater continuity and higher quality of care than shunting veterans to private vendors.The Trump administration has been less than candid in denying its intent to privatize the entire V.A. health system, a goal promoted by the Koch billionaires.Congress should intervene now with legislation to preserve and protect V.A. health care standards and accessibility, and roll back plans for private outside care.Robert L. NolanLafayette, Calif. The writer, a clinical professor of pediatrics at the University of California, San Francisco, is a former chief of staff at the V.A. Hospital in Martinez, Calif.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byTowns like Estes Park, Colo., wonder how long they can survive the shutdown.By Kelly CordesMr. Cordes is a climber.ESTES PARK, Colo  The winter winds roar off the Continental Divide in Rocky Mountain National Park relentlessly, blasting our little town with such ferocity that sometimes I fear we might blow away. Its as if the mountains are finally exhaling now that the peak of the tourist season has passed. For most of its history, Estes Park, the gateway to Rocky Mountain National Park, has been a ghost town in winter. Over the last several years, however, with the population boom along the Front Range of the Rockies and the growing popularity of our national parks, Estes has nudged itself toward a sustainable year-round economy. Barely. Precariously.But now, with so many locals having banked on a small but steady stream of income tied in various ways to the park  the fourth most visited national park in 2017, with 4.4 million visitors  the government shutdown has upended the economy of this town and created apprehension and uncertainty.Its crazy that one guy gets to do this to us all, said Dustin Dyer, director and co-owner of Kent Mountain Adventure Center, a guide service thats been here for decades, referring to President Trump.Although Rocky Mountain National Park officially remains open, its main roads had been closed until this week, because there wasnt enough money to run the snowplows. Well over half of Mr. Dyers trips (he offers snowshoeing, backcountry ski touring, ice climbing and avalanche courses) had to be canceled, but hes trying to be optimistic. We will survive, but it is crazy to be hit by the noise on the TV, he told me. It is usually just noise.On Monday, 24 days into the shutdown, the park announced that it would use recreation fees intended for park enhancements to plow some roads, clean restrooms and remove trash, though two of the three main visitors centers remain closed; the third is being staffed by the nonprofit Rocky Mountain Conservancy. But how long these patchwork solutions will work is unclear. At the coffee shop, supermarket and restaurants I visited, people said they would weather the shutdown, no matter how tough it might become. Same with the park service employees who are either furloughed or being forced to work without pay. People here plan for winter, when work slows and they rely on their savings. But nobody planned for this, and as the shutdown drags on, the ripples spread far beyond the parks workers.Rick Thompson, owner of BTEC Design Shop, a small shipping and printing company, told me that his business has dropped noticeably. The park service, it turns out, ships a lot of packages. His wife, Val Thompson, owns the nearby shop You Need Pie, which has taken a major hit. People arent coming to visit, Mr. Thompson said, exasperated. But he hasnt cut hours or laid off workers; hes absorbing the losses, as are other business owners I spoke with. Theyll need their loyal employees once business resumes. Whenever that is. It isnt their fault, he said. Its not my fault, either  its the governments fault. The ones I feel the worst for are the park employees who have to work but arent getting paid. People have bills to pay, families to feed. His tone turned to frustration bordering on outrage. How can you make people work but not pay them? he asked.Karla Mosier Dubois, the owner of Eds Cantina, said what she has most noticed has been the decline in traffic at the end of the day, when climbers, skiers and hikers normally congregate for food and drinks. Theres been a palpable feeling of disappointment from her customers who have found their vacation plans thwarted by locked gates. Washington and politics feel so intrusive yet maniacally detached in times like this, she said.The trails mirror the streets and shops in their unusual quiet. For some residents, its reminiscent of winter 10 or 20 years ago, with less noise, fewer people and a feeling that borders on solitude. Even though its a two-edged sword, I kind of like that side of it, a friend who is a furloughed Park Service employee told me. But his enjoyment of the serenity cant last much longer, because hes running out of savings.The accessible trailheads remain clean and well kept for now; perhaps the visitors who brave the wind and cold to come here have an innate, abiding respect for nature.Everyones out there with trash bags, they want to help, they want to clean bathrooms, said another friend who works for the park. Folks are definitely taking care of their land since the government cant.And yet the shutdown continues, with local residents and local economies held hostage to something as puerile and idiotic as a temper tantrum over a wholly unrelated issue. The calm, the silence and even the damned wind here seems more profound and beautiful now, like a shining light against the chaos and dysfunction of Washington.On Tuesday, the wind was but a faint breath. More of the roads are open now, with some park employees being paid and others left relying on the good faith of government I.O.U.s.I hope this blip of relief gives a moment to regroup, but it is indeed only a blip, Ms. Mosier Dubois said. Maybe some adults will someday enter the halls in Washington, but nobody seems to be counting on it. Ill continue on carefully, she said. Kelly Cordes is a climber and author of The Tower: A Chronicle of Climbing and Controversy on Cerro Torre.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy David M. HalbfingerJERUSALEM  In his increasingly uphill re-election battle, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahus secret weapon is no secret.Its President Trump.Giant campaign billboards went up in Tel Aviv and Jerusalem a month ago showing the prime minister and the president shaking hands and grinning under the words A Different League, implicitly dismissing Mr. Netanyahus challengers as amateurs. Hours before Israels attorney general announced his intention to indict Mr. Netanyahu on corruption charges last month, Mr. Trump told reporters in Vietnam that the Israeli leader was tough, smart, strong and has done a great job as prime minister.And on Monday, the Pentagon announced a small, temporary American troop deployment in Israel. By Wednesday, Mr. Netanyahu  barred under an anti-propaganda law from exploiting Israeli soldiers as campaign props  had circulated a video and snapshots showing him surrounded by American troops instead.All of this is of great help to Mr. Netanyahu with voters in Israel, where polls show Mr. Trump is admired more than in almost any other country. Israelis have ample reason to view the president favorably: His administration has showered Mr. Netanyahu with gift after politically charged gift, including moving the American Embassy to Jerusalem, repeatedly cutting aid to the Palestinian Authority, and embracing Israels argument that millions of Palestinians should no longer be counted as refugees.While other presidents and prime ministers have been close, the Trump-Netanyahu relationship has no precedent in their countries history, veteran diplomats say, encompassing deep parallels in their politics, similar struggles with scandals and outright copycatting in how they denigrate opponents. And the relationship has also benefited Mr. Trump, with Mr. Netanyahus policies alienating Jewish Democrats and helping Mr. Trump depict the Republicans as Israels only reliable source of unconditional American support.But the prelude to the April 9 election in Israel could well be their last hurrah together.Mr. Netanyahus defeat is now a serious possibility. His party is trailing that of a popular former army chief, Benny Gantz, in the polls. Even if Mr. Netanyahu wins, he may be unable to form a government because Mr. Gantz has vowed not to enter a coalition with him while he faces indictment. And if Mr. Netanyahu could forge a governing majority, it is likely to be so far right as to complicate or even derail the Trump administrations long-awaited peace plan to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.In the United States, Mr. Netanyahus new alliance with a racist Israeli fringe party is already freeing Democrats to denounce him with fewer concerns about Republican blowback. And in a matter of months, the criminal case against Mr. Netanyahu could dislodge him from power once and for all.For now, however, the administrations favors keep on coming: Secretary of State Mike Pompeo just announced a stop in Israel on a Middle East swing beginning March 18. The political backup is almost certain to reach its peak a few days later, when Mr. Netanyahu is expected to get an Oval Office meeting, if not a formal White House dinner, during the yearly gathering of Aipac, the powerful pro-Israel lobby.Its gotten to the point that analysts tracking the American assistance to Mr. Netanyahus campaign have taken to guessing what Mr. Trump might toss his way next: merely more plaudits, or perhaps a meatier bone, like endorsing Republican-sponsored legislation to recognize Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights.Some big package and bundle of goodies, said Aaron David Miller, a veteran Middle East negotiator under Republican and Democratic presidents. The game on Trumps part is to do whatever he can do to re-elect Bibi.There is nothing unheard-of about a president trying to influence an Israeli election: George H.W. Bushs suspension of loan guarantees helped Yitzhak Rabin defeat Yitzhak Shamir in part out of frustration at Mr. Shamirs recalcitrance. Bill Clinton arranged an Arab-Israeli summit meeting and a White House visit in a failed effort to help Shimon Peres defeat Mr. Netanyahu in 1996. And Mr. Netanyahus poor relationship with Mr. Clinton, who was seen as pro-Israel, contributed to his defeat after just three years in office, said Anshel Pfeffer, author of Bibi, a well-received Netanyahu biography.But there is no antecedent for the kind of feedback loop at work between Mr. Trump and Mr. Netanyahu, at least in stylistic terms.Its hard to know if witch hunt, the term both use to discredit the investigations clouding their administrations, is being thrown around more by Mr. Netanyahu in Hebrew or by Mr. Trump in the original English. Mr. Netanyahu does not bother to translate fake news in his frequent social-media posts. Mr. Trump calls some news organizations enemies of the people, while Mr. Netanyahu ran ads singling out Israeli journalists and vowing, They will not decide the election. Even his indispensable man strategy evokes Mr. Trumps 2016 nomination speech, Only I can fix it.The interplay achieved a kind of fun-house-mirror effect a week ago when Mr. Netanyahu tweeted about a segment of Fox and Friends, Mr. Trumps favorite program, in which an American commentator had dismissed the Israeli corruption case using talking points Mr. Netanyahu easily could have dictated. Watch what they say in one of the most watched shows in the U.S. about the persecution against me, he told his followers.In both personality and policy, the two actually have so little in common that the different league tagline could be read another way. Mr. Netanyahu is a voracious reader and student of history; Mr. Trump is neither. Mr. Netanyahu, even his critics say, has been a savvy statesman, forging ties with once-hostile nations; Mr. Trumps iconoclastic, domineering foreign policy has by contrast alienated longstanding American allies around the globe.Yet much as Muddy Waters anticipated Mick Jagger, Mr. Netanyahu was thrilling Israeli audiences with a visceral blend of populism, ethnic resentments and media-bashing fully 20 years before Mr. Trump first took that brand of politics to the big time.Where Mr. Trump would later appeal to the American white working class, Mr. Netanyahu melded Israeli ultra-Orthodox, secular Russian immigrants and working-class Mizrachi voters, whose forebears lived in the Arab world, into a political base hungry to give the educated, liberal, European-descended Ashkenazim of Tel Aviv their comeuppance, said Ari Shavit, an author and former columnist who has followed Mr. Netanyahu throughout his career.Both are successful, privileged men who managed to become leaders of the rebellion against the elite, Mr. Shavit said.Mr. Pfeffers biography recounts a 1999 campaign rally at which Mr. Netanyahu accused the news media of colluding with the left to bring him down and led the crowd in chanting, They. Are. Afraid.It was exactly the same patterns and tones as Lock Her Up, Mr. Pfeffer said in an interview, referring to the Trump rally chant against Hillary Clinton.The White House declined to comment for this article, and the prime ministers office did not respond to requests for comment.Mr. Netanyahu, whom Republicans in a 2015 poll had named the world leader they most admired, was initially apprehensive over Mr. Trumps victory in November 2016, according to people made aware of his thinking at the time. Much as he disliked Mrs. Clinton, he knew what to expect with her. Mr. Trump was unpredictable.Mr. Netanyahu quickly realized his good fortune, however: He had a personal connection to Jared Kushner, the presidents son-in-law. David Friedman, the presidents bankruptcy lawyer-turned-ambassador to Israel, was a stalwart supporter of West Bank settlement. Sheldon Adelson, a key backer of Mr. Trumps campaign, had been a devoted Netanyahu backer for far longer, even bankrolling a supportive daily newspaper that is now the closest Israeli equivalent to Fox News. In short order, Mr. Netanyahus ties to the White House became a calling card for him with other world leaders seeking an in with the Trump administration, according to Israeli officials.What was missing with Mr. Trump, however, was the curb on Mr. Netanyahu that Mr. Clinton and Barack Obama had each applied, Mr. Shavit said: The fact that hed had a Democratic president was like his external superego.The moment Trump was elected, it unleashed a far more aggressive, vulgar and manipulative Netanyahu than we had seen before, he added.It was the license Mr. Netanyahu felt with Mr. Trump, Mr. Shavit suggested, that allowed him to attack the police chief and attorney general, both political allies until they pursued corruption charges against him; to abandon an agreement, enormously important to religiously liberal American Jews, to enhance non-Orthodox Jewish prayer at the Western Wall; and, most recently, to broker an alliance with a racist anti-Arab party, Otzma Yehudit, or Jewish Power, whose ideology has been compared to Nazism.These moves have further eroded his support among liberal American Jews who have felt squeezed between their support for Israel and their animus toward Mr. Netanyahu.Democrats have to convey that theyre pro-Israel but anti-Netanyahu, said Batya Ungar-Sargon, the Brooklyn-based opinion editor for The Forward. It seems tricky, but his criminal case and his coalition with Otzma have made that so much easier for them. Hes given them a totally fair target.If Mr. Trumps generosity toward Mr. Netanyahus Israel has been purposeful, it could be seen at least partly as a drawn-out but determined effort to butter him up to make it more difficult for him to say no to the Trump peace plan. The fear all along among right-wing Israelis has been that Mr. Trump would draw down some of the good will he has banked with Mr. Netanyahu, possibly by demanding such hard-to-swallow concessions as statehood for Palestine with a part of Jerusalem carved out for its capital.Yet Mr. Netanyahu now trails Mr. Gantz, whose appeals for right-of-center support are widely believed to mask a willingness to compromise for peace if the Palestinians show a readiness to do the same.For the first time in the history of U.S.-Israeli relations, we could have an Israeli government thats more flexible, more willing to move forward, than an American administration, Mr. Miller said.Mr. Netanyahu may still prevail on April 9, but given Mr. Gantzs promise to refuse to enter a coalition with him, Mr. Netanyahu would be forced to assemble a governing majority even further to the right than his current one.Any proposal remotely palatable to the Palestinians would be anathema to such a government, and vice versa, said Daniel Shapiro, the ambassador to Israel under Mr. Obama.He may be able to tell his coalition, Ive extracted the most favorable terms ever offered by any American administration, but the Palestinians will reject it and itll be a one-day story.I think the most likely scenario, actually, Mr. Shapiro added, is they never present a plan.An earlier version of this article misstated the surname and job of a journalist at The Forward. She is Batya Ungar-Sargon, not Ungar-Garson, and she is The Forwards opinion editor, not a columnist.Peter Baker contributed reporting from Washington.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Shane Goldmacher[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York on Tuesday cast himself and the state that he leads as progressive beacons and a bulwark against President Trump, taking the oath of office while standing on Ellis Island.In his third inaugural address, Mr. Cuomo pledged to pursue a new justice agenda that would confront a cancer of hatred and division that he said threatened the nation.Mr. Cuomo conspicuously avoided invoking the president by name, even as he sharply rebuked a federal government that he said has sought to demonize our differences and make our diversity our greatest weakness rather than our greatest strength.Americas only threat is from within: It is the growing division amongst us, Mr. Cuomo said. New York, he vowed, would be the light to lead the way through the darkness.Mr. Cuomo has said flatly and repeatedly he is not running for president in 2020, even as he has leaned in to cast himself as a leading Democratic foil to the Republican president.Mr. Cuomo, 61, was determined to deliver his inaugural address on Ellis Island, where millions of immigrants arrived at what became the symbolic gateway to a new life in the New World in the early 20th century.The fact that Mr. Cuomos administration is currently footing the bill  $65,000 per day  to keep Ellis Island open during a federal government shutdown, sparked by Mr. Trumps insistence that Congress fund a border wall with Mexico to keep immigrants out, made the location all the more poignant a contrast.Let New York say that the federal government may shut itself down but it will never extinguish the Statue of Libertys torch. It will never erase the words of her poem, Mr. Cuomo declared. They will never close our harbor. They will never close our hearts. They will never close this hall of dreamers.It was a highly produced evening, complete with a campaign-style five-minute video introducing Mr. Cuomo and touting his life achievements. His half-hour speech was followed by a live performance of Rise Up by the singer Andra Day. A full gospel choir also performed. The inaugural speech was followed by a reception on Ellis Island for Mr. Cuomo and his supporters, paid for by the state Democratic Party.Much of New Yorks political class  friends of Mr. Cuomo, labor leaders, lobbyists, elected officials and party functionaries  had piled into big boats at Battery Park for a rare ride to Ellis Island after dark. Attendees whipped out their cellphones and opened windows wide for a clearer shot of the glowing Statue of Liberty, as cold winter air gushed in.This was Mr. Cuomos third inauguration and the sixth for a Cuomo governor  his father, Mario M. Cuomo, also served three terms. So thoroughly has the Cuomo family dominated New York politics that for anyone born in 1980, a Cuomo has been governor for a majority of their lifetime  even before the younger Mr. Cuomo embarks on his new term.Mr. Cuomo had labored intensely on the inaugural address for weeks, drafting passages by hand as he spent the holidays in the Executive Mansion in Albany, according to people familiar with his preparation.While he never once mentioned Mr. Trump by name, he did pointedly say that Ellis Island was the harbor where Frederick Trump arrived from Germany, noting that his grandson would become the president of the United States.Mr. Cuomo said that his own family members had come through Ellis Island and that the ancestors of so many others, including Vice President Mike Pence, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg of the Supreme Court and the former secretary of state Colin L. Powell had marched through this sacred place.Never forget where you came from, he said.Mr. Cuomo blamed those running the federal government, and thus Mr. Trump, for taking advantage of deep divisions in the country, if not creating them. Like looters during a blackout, they didnt cause the darkness but they exploited it, Mr. Cuomo said.Mr. Cuomo won his third term resoundingly, capturing nearly 60 percent of the vote in the general election and nearly two-thirds of the primary vote, campaigning consistently against the Trump administration.Like the nation, New York has become increasingly polarized between its urban liberal base in New York City and its more conservative rural areas. Mr. Cuomo won only six counties north of Westchester County in 2018  and those were mostly counties with urban centers like Buffalo, Syracuse, Rochester and Albany. Mr. Cuomo carried fewer counties than four years ago, even as he finished 10 percentage points further ahead of his Republican challenger in 2018 than in 2014.The tenor of Tuesdays swearing-in was a far cry from Mr. Cuomos first inaugural address, in which he offered an olive branch to Republican lawmakers in New York, promising, I say I will not govern in a partisan way and my administration will not be a partisan administration.The coming term will be Mr. Cuomos first with a Legislature fully controlled by Democrats, presenting a new set of challenges for a politician who initially campaigned as a centrist but who now describes himself as a pragmatic progressive.I feel liberated, Mr. Cuomo said of working with a Democrat-run Legislature.Notably, neither Democratic legislative leader, Assemblyman Carl E. Heastie or Senator Andrea Stewart-Cousins, chose to attend Mr. Cuomos inauguration.The governor has already outlined an ambitious agenda for his first 100 days, invoking the frenetic start to the presidency of a former New York governor, Franklin D. Roosevelt, as his inspiration.As our nation once confronted a great economic depression, we now confront a great social depression, Mr. Cuomo said, adding, Just as F.D.R. turned the frustration of the economic depression into a movement to pass the New Deal, let New York use the frustration of the social depression to pass a new justice agenda.The Cuomo prescription for 2019 included a wish list of liberal policies: legalizing recreational marijuana; making Election Day a holiday; ending cash bail at the state level; enacting more restrictive gun laws; strengthening abortion rights protections; banning corporate money in state elections; tightening rent-control protections; and instituting automatic voter registration.Few are underestimating a governor who approaches everything from event staging to the wording of a news article about him as a win-at-all-costs battle.Hes no day at the beach, Diane Savino, a veteran Democratic state senator from Staten Island, said of Mr. Cuomo. But, she added, Over the last eight years, whether you love him or hate him, no one can say Andrew Cuomo doesnt get stuff done.Third terms have historically been challenging, and Mr. Cuomo has benefited heavily from governing during robust and almost continuous economic growth.And, as he enters his ninth year in office, Mr. Cuomos tight inner circle of advisers has shrunk to the point of concern among even his close allies. His relentless pace, intense management style, stubbornness and reluctance to trust newcomers have made him ever more reliant on a select few aides. He survived two corruption trials in 2018 involving senior administration officials that resulted in convictions, including of Joseph Percoco, once one of Mr. Cuomos top lieutenants.He was sworn in on Tuesday evening by Janet DiFiore, the chief judge of the state Court of Appeals, surrounded by his mother, his longtime girlfriend, Sandra Lee, and his daughters.The speech marked Mr. Cuomos first full Inauguration Day without his father, who died exactly four years ago. In a twist fit for a novel, the 56th governor was informed of the death of the 52nd governor just moments after finishing his second inaugural address in Buffalo.On Tuesday, he called the anniversary bittersweet for me.I can hear his voice and I can imagine his pain and anger if he could see his beloved country today, Mr. Cuomo said.An earlier version of this article incorrectly stated that a Cuomo, either Mario or Andrew, has been governor for a majority of the life of anyone born since 1980. That is the case for those born in 1980, not anyone since.Follow Shane Goldmacher on Twitter: @ShaneGoldmacher Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin, Melina Delkic and Lance BoothHere are the weeks top stories, and a look ahead. Also, were following breaking news about the crash of an Ethiopian Airlines jet, which killed the more than 150 people aboard. Boeing identified the plane as a 737 MAX 8, the same model that crashed in October in Indonesia. 1. 47 months.The sentence for Paul Manafort, President Trumps former campaign chairman, struck many as lenient, compared with the 19 to 24 years recommended under sentencing guidelines. Mr. Manafort, above in 2017, had perpetrated a decade-long, multimillion-dollar fraud scheme, but Judge T.S. Ellis said he lived an otherwise blameless life.This week, a judge in federal court in Washington will sentence Mr. Manafort on two conspiracy charges, which carry a maximum penalty of five years each. Michael Flynn, Mr. Trumps former national security adviser, will also be sentenced this week.And Michael Cohen, the presidents former fixer and personal lawyer, sued the Trump Organization for refusing to pay him $1.9 million in legal costs. We also obtained six checks from Mr. Trump to Mr. Cohen that show how the president tried to prevent alleged sexual misconduct from going public.Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And heres the front page of our Sunday paper, the Sunday Review from Opinion and our crossword puzzles.____2. House Democrats tried to put to rest an uproar over Representative Ilhan Omars remarks, seen by some as anti-Semitic, with a bill condemning hate.The scandal overshadowed the passing of a comprehensive reform bill  dismantling voting barriers, limiting money in politics and imposing stricter ethics rules on federal officials. Above, Ms. Omar at a news conference for the reform bill with Speaker Nancy Pelosi.In last weeks will-they-or-wont-they 2020 developments: John Hickenlooper, a two-time Colorado governor, is running for president. Former Vice President Joe Biden is 95 percent sure he is, too. The leading Democratic candidates have largely broken with consensus-driven politics and embraced progressive ideas. Heres what that means for moderates.Check our candidate tracker for updates on the crowded presidential field.____3. The southern border is experiencing a humanitarian catastrophe, according to Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security secretary.She urged Congress to support the presidents border wall, although it was not clear how that would solve the humanitarian crisis. Her testimony came as the number of migrants crossing the border without authorization reached an 11-year high in February. Above, migrants in Penitas, Tex., turning themselves in to Border Patrol agents in February.And now, new data shows that 245 children have been newly removed from their families since a federal judge ordered the government to halt routine separations.The Senate is poised to overturn the presidents national emergency declaration this week. The only question: how big the Senate margin will be.____4. Happy bullversary! Its been 10 years since the bull market began. But most arent celebrating the more than $30 trillion in wealth generated since then. We wrote about how the psychological and financial damage inflicted by the 2008 financial crisis continues to weigh heavily. The caution around stocks could last for decades.On the jobs front, the economy produced a mere 20,000 jobs in February. It was the smallest gain in well over a year, but there were encouraging signs in the data as well.Separately, a Chinese official has suggested a trade compromise with the United States that could make a pact easier to reach. But he did not answer a question about whether President Trump and President Xi Jinping might meet in Florida this month to seal a trade deal.____5. In news from around the world: North Korea is adding to its weapons arsenal and nuclear infrastructure, which President Trump publicly acknowledged after longtime warnings from intelligence officials.Satellite imagery taken Friday showed that the Sohae satellite launch site was being rebuilt. North Korea had begun dismantling the site after talks between Kim Jong-un, the countrys leader, and Mr. Trump last summer, but the progress is now in doubt. Above, the two leaders in Hanoi, Vietnam, last month.We also wrote about how the Philippines is grappling with the growing presence of the Islamic State in its southern region, where weak policing and dense forests offer a haven for insurgents.____6. The U.S. womens soccer team sued U.S. Soccer, accusing it of institutionalized gender discrimination, just three months before the Womens World Cup.The pay gap and differences in training, coaching and even medical treatment arent limited to soccer. In golf last year, for example, the worlds top-ranked woman earned as much as the 33rd-best man. Above, the team at the 2015 Womens World Cup in Vancouver.We compiled eight other times in recent memory when women fought for equality in sports, including the ways W.N.B.A. players are speaking out about their own pay gaps. N.B.A. players, in their starting salaries, make about eight times as much as the average W.N.B.A. player.____7. The global health community reached a milestone: A second patient with H.I.V. was reportedly cured of the infection that causes AIDS.The procedure that cured the first man of H.I.V. infection seems to have cured a second patient. Both milestones resulted from bone-marrow transplants given to infected patients. But the transplants were intended to treat cancer in the patients, not H.I.V.Translating the latest success into a practical treatment will take years  if it happens at all. Other recently revealed advances are more likely to affect the immediate course of the AIDS epidemic, including monthly injections of long-acting H.I.V. drugs.____8. There were several #MeToo developments.The singer R. Kelly appeared in his first interview on CBS after being charged with 10 counts of aggravated criminal sexual abuse. In an interview with Gayle King, that was parodied on Saturday Night Live, Mr. Kelly portrayed himself as the victim of a smear campaign fueled by social media.The face-off between the wrathful Mr. Kelly and the stoic Ms. King was a clash of temperaments, our TV critic writes. But it was also a collision of eras: the moment of the reckoning coming face-to-face with decades of impunity. Above, Mr. Kelly leaving jail in Chicago on Saturday after being detained for missing child support payments.Separately, Mario Batali agreed to give up his stake in all of his restaurants, more than a year after the chef was accused of sexual misconduct. Of all the famous chefs and restaurateurs accused of sexual harassment, Mr. Batali is the first to pay such a price.____9. And now for something completely different: the work songs of cowboy poets.Ranchers and seekers of the mythic West travel each year to Elko, Nev., to practice a tradition born of labor and regional identity. Our reporter and photographer traveled to the National Cowboy Poetry Gathering, now in its 35th year, and recorded 10 readings from the poetry event. Above, the poet Deanna McCall in downtown Elko.In the poem Sweetly Singing, Amy Hale Auker writes, Ours is a work song / a song of doing, with hands and hearts.____10. Finally, dont miss our best Weekend Reads.We talked to a swimmer saved by what she lost, and the owners of the worlds last Blockbuster store in Bend, Ore., who have no plans to close. We also have The Times Magazines annual music issue and the 25 songs that matter right now, including Beyonc and Jay-Zs Apeshit, Robyns Honey, and Bruce Springsteens Born in the U.S.A.For more suggestions on what to read, watch and listen to, may we suggest these eight new books our editors like (or these famously scathing reviews of classic books from the Times archive), a glance at the latest TV recommendations, and our music critics latest playlist.Have a melodic week, and enjoy that extra hour of sunlight today.____Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementListen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherWilliam P. Barr, President Trumps nominee for attorney general, is set to go before senators today for the beginning of his confirmation hearings. What would it mean for the president and the special counsel to have an attorney general who is in charge of the Russia investigation?On todays episode:Katie Benner, who covers the Justice Department for The New York Times.Background reading:In prepared remarks for the confirmation hearing, Mr. Barr said he would allow the special counsel to continue his investigation.Mr. Barr, who has long held a broad view of executive power, may soon serve a president who is known for pushing limits.Mr. Barrs confirmation hearing begins at 9:30 a.m. Eastern. The Times will have live coverage and analysis. Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if youre interested in advertising with The Daily, write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.Katie Benner contributed reporting.Trumps Pick for Attorney General was produced by Jessica Cheung and Theo Balcomb, and edited by Paige Cowett.The Daily is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Jessica Cheung, Lynsea Garrison, Michael Simon Johnson, Andy Mills, Neena Pathak, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah, Clare Toeniskoetter, Jonathan Wolfe and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Larissa Anderson, Paige Cowett and Wendy Dorr. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Chris Wood is our sound engineer. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Annie Karni, Katie Rogers and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON  There was no golf. There were no meetings. There were no activities, other than a rare visit to church. So President Trump did what he could do: He tweeted.Since his election, Mr. Trump has averaged about 16 tweets per weekend, according to a New York Times analysis of his tweets as collected by the Trump Twitter Archive website. But last weekend proved to be an unusually active 48 hours online for Mr. Trump: From Friday morning to Sunday evening, Mr. Trump tweeted over 50 times, counting the retweets that amplified supporters who have limited public reach on their own.Ensconced in the White House, Mr. Trump saw enemies everywhere, and his tweets reflected that, stoking new tensions and nursing past grievances.He took on Saturday Night Live, which on March 16 aired a rerun from Christmas, and suggested that the Federal Communications Commission look into late-night shows and examine them for anti-Trump bias. He accused Senator John McCain, who died of brain cancer last year, of collaborating with Democrats and claimed that Mr. McCain, a former prisoner of war, was last in his class at the Naval Academy. (Mr. McCain actually graduated fifth from the bottom.) And he defended Tucker Carlson and Jeanine Pirro, the Fox News opinion hosts who have been under fire for making bigoted statements, encouraging Fox executives to stay strong in the face of criticism.Mr. Trumps advisers have shared with him data showing that even his supporters do not like the tweet storms, and have advised him to act more presidential as his re-election campaign draws nearer. At rallies, even die-hard Trump fans who arrive early dressed in MAGA gear admit that while they are willing to overlook the presidents online musings, they would prefer seeing fewer of them.Mr. Trump often likes to buck the advice he gets, and it was clear over the weekend that he was trusting his gut again, and going his own way.Stop working soooo hard on being politically correct, which will only bring you down, and continue to fight for our Country, he said in a tweet on Sunday that appeared to be directed at Fox executives who had temporarily removed Ms. Pirro from her Saturday night slot after she suggested that Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota and one of the first two Muslim women elected to Congress, may practice Shariah law.The losers all want what you have, dont give it to them. Be strong & prosper, be weak & die! Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. He also singled out two weekend Fox News anchors, Arthel Neville and Leland Vittert, who are less opinionated than the late-night hosts who double as the presidents personal friends and informal advisers, asking rhetorically whether they were trained by CNN prior to their ratings collapse.Later on Sunday, he shared a homemade meme from a little-known Twitter user, who goes by the handle @LonewolfnDuke, which depicted him as an American president having to fight an American government to protect American citizens.But it was unclear what had provoked the presidents flurry of activity, and even advisers were searching for the normal cues that set him off: White House officials performing poorly on the Sunday show circuit, or the presidents delayed distillation of negative coverage from the week before.Mr. Trump on Friday was rebuked by Senate Republicans, 12 of whom voted with Democrats against a national emergency to build a border wall. But the border barely figured into Mr. Trumps weekend tweets, which appeared to be driven more by idle hands and an empty weekend schedule.People who spoke with Mr. Trump on the phone over the weekend said he seemed to be in good spirits. Others who communicated with him said he had spent some time railing privately against Andrew G. McCabe, the former deputy F.B.I. director. But they also said he appeared to be a little aimless, and the outpouring seemed to be more driven by a lack of structure. Mr. Trump had skipped his regular weekend trip to Mar-a-Lago, his Florida estate, because of a family commitment that kept him grounded in Washington.There was a four-hour lull in Mr. Trumps online activity on Sunday, when he left the White House to visit St. Johns Church for St. Patricks Day. But for the most part, the president  bored, agitated or both  appeared to spend the weekend online.Mr. Trump shared with his 59.1 million followers a report circulating on right-wing sites that Minnesota Democrats had grown unhappy with Ms. Omar, and accused a Democrat union leader in Ohio of standing in the way of putting an idling General Motors plant in the state back into operation.Jack Posobiec, a Trump supporter known for advancing conspiracy theories on Twitter, including Pizzagate, marveled that his messages were being retweeted by the leader of the free world. The president shared two tweets initially sent by Mr. Posobiec, one a local news article about an MS-13 gang stabbing, and another criticizing CNN over a segment examining the links between Mr. Trump and white nationalism.I realize the presidents just reading my Twitter account going through the tweets, Mr. Posobiec said in a 13-minute video he posted analyzing the experience. Lets see what else hes up to today.As is often the case, there was a correlation between what appeared on Mr. Trumps Twitter feed and the programming on Fox News. The weekend tour into conspiracy theories kicked off on Friday, when Mr. Trump elevated a nascent movement that calls itself Jexodus, the brainchild of a conservative Jewish activist that describes itself as a group of proud Jewish millennials tired of living in bondage to leftist politics.The Jexodus movement encourages Jewish people to leave the Democrat Party, Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter, although there is no evidence to suggest that Jewish voters have been deserting the party. But Mr. Trump appeared to be reacting to an appearance on Fox & Friends by the groups spokeswoman, Elizabeth Pipko, a former model and Trump 2016 campaign staff member.Brian Ott, who studies the effects of rhetoric at Texas Tech University and is the author of a book studying Mr. Trumps tweets, said the president appeared to have become less concerned with the consequences of his messaging.Not only is it already getting worse, Dr. Ott said, I dont think weve even seen the tip of the iceberg yet. As these investigations begin to close in on him, really his only play is to stoke vitriol and violence.Tweeting has also become a normal part of how the president circumvents the news media and his own advisers to communicate to the public what is on his mind. But the weekend whirlwind was so unusual that it created its own mini news cycle, with targets using their own platforms to respond and aides fielding questions from reporters about the presidents mental state.Kellyanne Conway, counselor to the president, defended him on Monday morning after her husband, George Conway, spent the weekend raising concerns about Narcissistic Personality Disorder and said on Twitter that Mr. Trumps condition is getting worse.No, I dont share those concerns, Ms. Conway told reporters outside the White House.Meghan McCain, a host of The View and the daughter of Mr. McCain, said the attacks  which included a presidential retweet of a woman who claimed that Millions of Americans truly LOVE President Trump, not McCain  only made her feel bad for Mr. Trumps family.I cant imagine having a father that does this on the weekends, Ms. McCain said.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byA big mistake of 2016 was trying to decide in advance who the best candidate was. By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of David Leonhardts newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday.Joe Biden should run for president. He should run not because he will necessarily be the best candidate. He should run because nobody can yet know who will be the best candidate  the most effective campaigner and best fit for the countrys mood in 2020.And Biden is unlike any other potential 2020 candidate.My column today makes the full version of this case. I especially hope that Biden skeptics will read it. As always, I welcome feedback, including in the comments section of the column.[Listen to The Argument podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]For the case against Biden, see my colleague Frank Brunis recent column, as well as my future colleague Jamelle Bouie, writing in Slate, and Matthew Yglesias in Vox. For the pro-Biden side, see Jared Bernstein in The Washington Post and Matt Lewis in The Daily Beast. Also in The Post, Jennifer Rubin explains why Bidens decision matters so much to the race.The Trump 50As regular readers know, I find lists to be a useful way to describe the Trump presidency. They can capture the extent of the chaos in a way that paragraphs full of fulminations dont always do.The Atlantic is marking the halfway point of Trumps term by publishing a list of what Jeffrey Goldberg, the magazines editor, calls 50 of the most improbable, norm-bending, and destructive incidents of this presidency. Each item is accompanied by a short essay, including Annie Lowrey on Trumps business, Franklin Foer on Russian collusion, Jemele Hill on black athletes, Natasha Bertrand on the Justice Department, Ed Yong on science and George Packer on Wikileaks.The essays are another reminder that Trump has broken the law, violated his constitutional oath and is unfit to be president. Related: The Times published a collection of reader letters this weekend in response to my recent column arguing that Trump should be removed from office as soon as possible. RussiaIn Politico, Strobe Talbott, the former deputy secretary of state, puts into context the two big scoops of the weekend: The Times report that the F.B.I. investigated whether Trump is a Russian asset and The Post report that Trump has hidden transcripts of his conversations with President Vladimir Putin of Russia. Whether he knows it or not, Trump is integral to Putins strategy to strengthen authoritarian regimes and undermine democracies around the world, Talbott writes.If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt  Facebook Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders urge that we curtail campaign donations by fossil fuel companies, raise the gas tax and pass a carbon fee bill. To the Editor:Re Trump Imperils the Planet (editorial, Dec. 28):This editorial is correct about the destructiveness of President Trumps actions on climate change. It accurately and poignantly portrays the status of the climate change movement. It is buttressed with historical and scientific fact. It impassionedly appeals to our hearts, minds and souls.Unfortunately, however, it misses what would be most effective  namely, removing the corrupt power of oil companies and other wealthy interests over government. This power is exerted through the legal bribery of public officials with lobbying and other money by the rich heads of private industries. And that problem could be fixed by rewriting campaign finance law.No matter how persuasive the pro-climate argument, no matter how great a majority of the public can be convinced to support climate change action, that action will not happen so long as government officials depend for their political livelihood on the fossil fuel industry.Art SalukPembroke Pines, Fla.To the Editor:Thank you so much for your powerful and insightful editorial. In 20 or 30 years we can look back on climate change and see if we should have done more about it sooner.Many are more concerned about the perceived costs of doing something effective to stop climate change like carbon pricing (putting a price on polluting), not realizing that we are already paying the large and increasing costs of fossil fuel combustion and greenhouse gases in many other ways. Fortunately, there is a way to price carbon without inflicting economic pain on people: Give the revenue from a carbon fee back to households in the form of a monthly payment.Bipartisan legislation to do just that  the Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act  has been introduced in the House and Senate. It will drive down Americas carbon pollution by putting a price on fossil fuels and also protect Americans from increased costs associated with the fee.Climate should be a bridge issue, not a wedge issue. Solving climate change is too urgent to get caught up in partisan politics.John MacateeIowa CityTo the Editor:As the Democrats take over the House, they have a lengthy to-do list consisting of both investigations and legislation. Here is one suggestion for the legislative agenda that no one seems to be talking about: Now is the ideal time to increase the federal gas tax, which has been 18.4 cents per gallon since 1993.At that time, the average gas price was $1.11 per gallon. The tax represented 16.5 percent of the retail price. The current national average price for unleaded regular gas is $2.25, according to the AAA. If that 16.5 percentage were applied today, the tax would be about 37 cents.Will the Democrats have the political guts to add a nickel or a dime to the tax? If not now, when? Marvin KaplanWestfield, N.J.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byNursultan Nazarbayev is leaving the presidency but will retain considerable power.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.At a time when would-be autocrats around the world are doing what they can to stay on the throne, the reigning master of their breed, Kazakhstans Nursultan Nazarbayev, unexpectedly announced his retirement as president after a mere 30 years. What gives?Most likely not much. Mr. Nazarbayev may no longer be president, but among the titles conferred by a subservient Parliament on the only leader independent Kazakhstan has known is father of the nation, a status that, among other things, grants him and his family (all fabulously wealthy) lifelong immunity from criminal and civil prosecution.He also remains head of the ruling Nur Otan party and the powerful Security Council. And among the first acts of the new acting president, Kassym-Jomart Tokayev, was to have Mr. Nazarbayevs 55-year-old daughter, Dariga Nazarbayeva, named speaker of the Parliament and therefore next in line for the presidency, and to have the nations capital, Astana, renamed Nursultan after Mr. Nazarbayev. The father of the nation, Mr. Tokayev assured the nation, will have special, one might say priority, importance in developing and making strategic decisions. Sculptors are no doubt at work on some giant new statues.By ceding the presidency, Mr. Nazarbayev also deftly stepped out of the firing line at a time of irksome civil unrest. Last month, following persistent protests triggered by the deaths of five children in a house fire on Feb. 4, Mr. Nazarbayev dismissed the government, accusing it of failing to raise living standards and diversify the oil-dominated economy.The resignation was most likely another masterstroke by the last survivor of the band of wily Communist bosses who seized power in their respective republics when the Soviet Union fell apart and repurposed themselves as national champions and, in Central Asia at least, as all-powerful despots. Mr. Nazarbayev was the only name in independent Kazakhstans first election, and after that he was routinely re-elected by unreal margins in elections dismissed as fixed by Western observers. He had the Constitution rewritten so that he (but only he) could exceed the two-term limit.His human rights record has been dismal, and his pillaging of the national till epic. Among the victims of his wrath was his son-in-law, Ms. Nazarbayevas husband Rakhat Aliyev, who amassed a fortune and considerable power before the president turned on him and accused him of everything from murder to treason. Mr. Aliyev fled but eventually died in an Austrian prison, officially a suicide.Yet with oil reserves estimated at 30 billion barrels, Mr. Nazarbayev had the wherewithal to blunt criticism at home and abroad. A shrewd and competent ruler, he improved the lives of native Kazakhs, retained a sizable population of Russians, and managed to maintain cordial relations with Russia, China and Western companies that helped develop the oil and gas resources. The United States State Department expressed confidence that the strong American relationship with Kazakhstan will continue after the resignation of Mr. Nazarbayev, who met with President Trump at the White House in January 2018.Mr. Nazarbayev seems to have engineered a transition that other autocrats, like Russias Vladimir Putin, are likely to closely follow as an alternative to dying in office, in exile or in prison. Whether Mr. Nazarbayevs daughter can hang on to power once he dies is not certain  a nephew, Samat Abish, has risen fast through the ranks of state security, and some other senior officials may also be looking to make their moves.But so long as Mr. Nazarbayev lives and remains of sound mind, he told the nation in his resignation announcement, Until my dying day, I will stay with you.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byIt was probably not Stone himself, but rather his electronic devices.By Julian SanchezMr. Sanchez is a senior fellow at the Cato Institute.For many, Fridays arrest of Roger Stone, the veteran political trickster and longtime adviser to Donald Trump, was a sign that the special counsel investigation into Russian electoral interference is entering its final phase. Yet there were also several indications that the probe may not be as near its conclusion as many observers assume  and that the true target of Fridays F.B.I. actions was not Mr. Stone himself, but his electronic devices.Mr. Stones early-morning arrest at his Florida home unsurprisingly dominated coverage, but reports also noted that federal agents were seen carting hard drives and other evidence from Mr. Stones apartment in Harlem, and his recording studio in South Florida was also raided. The F.B.I., in other words, was executing search warrants, not just arrest warrants. Even the timing and manner of Mr. Stones arrest  at the absolute earliest moment allowed under federal rules of criminal procedure without persuading a judge to authorize an exceptional nighttime raid  suggests a concern with preventing destruction of evidence: Otherwise it would make little sense to send a dozen agents to arrest a man in his 60s before sunrise.The indictment itself  which charges Mr. Stone with witness tampering, obstruction of justice and false statements to Congress  takes little imagination to translate into a search warrant application, and also hints at what Robert Mueller might be looking for. In describing the lies it alleges Mr. Stone told a House committee, the document places great emphasis on Mr. Stones denial that he had any written communications with two associates  associates with whom he had, in fact, regularly exchanged emails and text messages. Thats precisely the sort of behavior one might focus on in seeking to convince a recalcitrant judge that an investigative target could not be trusted to turn over documents in response to a subpoena, requiring the more intrusive step of seizing Mr. Stones devices directly.Of course, as the indictment also makes clear, the special counsel has already managed to get its hands on plenty of Mr. Stones communications by other means  but one seeming exception jumps out. In a text exchange between Mr. Stone and a supporter involved with the Trump Campaign, Mr. Mueller pointedly quotes Mr. Stones request to talk on a secure line  got WhatsApp? There the direct quotes abruptly end, and the indictment instead paraphrases what Mr. Stone subsequently told the supporter. Though its not directly relevant to his alleged false statements, the special counsel is taking pains to establish that Mr. Stone made a habit of moving sensitive conversations to encrypted messaging platforms like WhatsApp  meaning that, unlike ordinary emails, the messages could not be obtained directly from the service provider. The clear implication is that any truly incriminating communications would have been conducted in encrypted form  and thus could be obtained only directly from Mr. Stones own phones and laptops. And while Mr. Stone likely has limited value as a cooperating witness  its hard to put someone on the stand after charging them with lying to obstruct justice  the charges against him provide leverage in the event his cooperation is needed to unlock those devices by supplying a cryptographic passphrase.Of course, Mr. Mueller is likely interested in his communications with Trump campaign officials, but the detailed charges filed against the Russian hackers alleged to have broken into the Democratic National Committees servers also show the special counsels keen interest in Mr. Stones communications with the hacker Guccifer 2.0, an identity said to have been used as a front for the Russian intruders. By Mr. Stones own admission, he had a brief exchange with Guccifer via private Twitter messages. On Mr. Stones account, Guccifer enthusiastically offered his assistance  at the same time we now know Mr. Stone was vigorously pursuing advance knowledge of what other embarrassing material stolen from Mr. Trumps opponents might soon be released  and Mr. Stone failed to even dignify the offer with a reply. With no easy way of getting hold of Guccifers cellphone, searching Mr. Stones devices might be the only reliable way for the special counsel to discover whether the conversation in fact continued on a more secure line.Yet if Mr. Mueller is indeed less interested in Mr. Stone than the potential evidence on his phones and computers, the conventional wisdom that the special counsel probe is wrapping up  and could issue a final report as soon as next month  seems awfully implausible. Digital forensics takes time, and a single device could easily hold many thousands of messages to sift through. And if this really is the first time Mr. Muellers office is seeing the most sensitive communications from a key figure like Mr. Stone, its likely theyll come away with new leads to follow and new questions to pose to other witnesses. We may ultimately look back on Mr. Stones arrest not as the beginning of the special counsels endgame, but the point when the investigation began to really heat up. Julian Sanchez is a senior fellow at the Cato Institute.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Catie Edmondson and Emily CochraneNEPHI, Utah  In the suburbs of Salt Lake City, Representative Ben McAdams, a freshman, was grilled by constituents about the socialism and anti-Semitism that they saw coming out of the new Democratic House.How long do you intend to ride that train with those people? one Utahan asked.In Michigan, Representative Haley Stevens was asked about her ability to counter what one voter deemed the bigotry of some of her freshman colleagues  a concern fueled partly by remarks from her counterpart in nearby Detroit, Rashida Tlaib  and the negative attitude they bring to Democrats.And on a rainy Saturday in Spotsylvania County, Va., one woman stood up in a town hall to remind Representative Abigail Spanberger that while she was the first Democrat to hold that seat in nearly 50 years, the majority of the rural enclave had voted Republican.Since the Democrats are now the party of death and taxes, the woman said, as Democratic supporters scoffed and grumbled, just how do you propose to effectively represent the taxpayers of Spotsylvania?It was Democrats like Mr. McAdams, Ms. Stevens and Ms. Spanberger who secured the partys House majority, political moderates who won districts often long represented by Republicans. Of the 67 Democrats in Congresss freshman class, roughly a third prevailed in districts where President Trump won in 2016.That serves as another indication that Democrats will have to confront the intraparty tussle between liberals and moderates to decide what they stand for, whom they appeal to and where their electoral future lies.Last week, home for the first district workweek of their term, moderate Democrats got to see firsthand how the raised voices of a small but vocal number of lawmakers such as Representatives Tlaib, Ilhan Omar of Minnesota and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York are reverberating in far more marginal districts. Some, like Representative Andy Kim of New Jersey, were asked to account for the uptick of negative rhetoric coming from the freshman class.My job is to focus in on you. I dont know how other members of Congress are making their decisions about what to say, Mr. Kim told constituents in the coastal township of Berkeley, but Ill certainly stand up and disagree whenever there is something out there I disagree with.Just two months into the new Congress, Republicans have begun an all-out assault painting Democrats as extremists  even bigots  and trying to tar moderates with their more liberal freshman counterparts beliefs. Their talking points appear to be resonating with some voters the Democrats will need next year if they are to keep their majority  and the voters determined to flip the districts back.Its a challenge, but its what I signed up for, Ms. Spanberger said in an interview after the town hall. She made a point of thanking her more critical questioners, including Dale Swanson, a founder of the local conservative womens coalition, for their presence and their questions.If youre only walking into comfortable spaces and comfortable rooms, she added, youre probably not doing your job.But Ms. Spanberger said she has had conversations with colleagues in more solid blue districts about the impact of both hard-line liberal policy and the tone of opposition, which have prompted her to emphasize in town halls, sometimes unprompted, that she is absolutely not a socialist.When people say things in snarky ways or disrespectful ways or flippant ways, that creates an issue in districts like ours, she said. Its real easy to be kind of snarky in the majority.At a pair of town halls last week in the deeply Republican suburbs of Salt Lake City, Mr. McAdams, an affable and mild-mannered former Salt Lake County mayor, fielded pointed questions about whether he supports the Green New Deal and socialism. More broadly, constituents worried how their moderate congressman might fare in the same caucus as the liberal bomb throwers. Richard Hansen, a Republican county commissioner and one of the two dozen constituents who attended the town hall in Nephi, a mountain town of 6,000, shared a wish with the Utah Democrat: I hope they dont corrupt you.They wont, Mr. McAdams pledged. There have been some articles about this, a little bit of tension on the Democratic side: Are we going to veer to the far left or are we going to stay in the center? I dont know where the Democratic Party will go, but I tell you what, I will stay in the center. People are going to have to take it or leave it.Mr. McAdams, who ousted Mia Love, the only black Republican woman in Congress who won her last election by nearly 13 points, appeared to relish the chance to wax defiant against his party, which he acknowledged had both good and bad.If Im solid and unequivocating that Im going to vote for my district, nobody really puts much pressure on me, Mr. McAdams assured his constituents.Democratic leaders have played down Republican efforts to divide the party, and accused Republicans of trying to divert attention from a popular legislative agenda that includes shoring up health care coverage and expanding background checks for gun purchases. They also accuse Republicans of hypocrisy in their  accusations of anti-Semitism in the Democratic ranks, set off by Twitter comments by Ms. Omar, who implied that American support for Israel was fueled by money from a pro-Israel lobbying group.A newcomer member of Congress has apologized for her remarks, Speaker Nancy Pelosi said after condemning Ms. Omars comments. She then raised the embrace of white supremacy by a veteran Republican representative: It took them what, 13 years to notice Steve King?Still, in a brief interview, Representative David Cicilline of Rhode Island, chairman of the Democrats communications arm, acknowledged that we are a large caucus, and there is a tendency to take legislation or statements by one member and attribute it to the entire caucus.Democrats need to continue to make it clear were fighting for the people of the country, get the government working for them again, he said. On those core Democratic issues, were really united.Many of the newly elected progressive freshmen probably arent thinking that whatever they say might do harm to their class, and thats not going to change, said Rodell Mollineau, a Democratic strategist and former aide to Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the former majority leader. The more progressive messaging is what sells right now. Thats what everyone is talking about, so it will be harder for moderates to break through. But thats why its important to repeat their view of the world to their constituents.Back home, Mr. McAdams, Ms. Stevens and Ms. Spanberger tried to do just that, seeking out the more conservative corners to temper concerns and reassure supporters that they are focusing on popular policy priorities like broadband internet access in rural Virginia and environmental concerns in Michigan.It didnt come as a shock at all, Ms. Stevens said in an interview after a town hall in Milford, Mich., a General Motors town, referring to the questioner who asked about anti-Semitic remarks. Both she and Mr. Kim took the opportunity to underscore not only their own support for Israel, but also the continuing discussions about the need for peace in the Middle East.But pivoting to other issues may prove more effective than defending embattled colleagues. Ms. Stevenss vow to put pressure on Betsy DeVos, the education secretary, generated some of the biggest applause of the night, as did her promise to advocate cleaning up the Great Lakes.You got to read the room, she said.More liberal supporters of the newcomers said that while they aspire to have someone openly pushing for universal health care, free postsecondary education and other more aggressive policies, a moderate approach is what will maintain Democratic representation in their districts.Those are things I could put aside, said Damon Burkeen, 17, a high school senior who drove an hour on icy Michigan roads to hear Ms. Stevens speak. She fits our district, which, aside from an odd two-month blip in a lame-duck session in 2012, has been represented by Republicans for 52 years.Bill Rucker, a retired chemistry and biology teacher from Milford, said that as a fan of Ms. Ocasio-Cortez and Ms. Tlaib, he wouldnt mind if Haley was more that way.But I understand that it cant be everyone, Mr. Rucker, 71, added.In Utah, Mr. McAdamss self-proclaimed independent streak may have won over his constituents. Asked about his support for the newly elected representative, Mr. Hansen, the Republican who wished aloud that the party would not corrupt him, did not have to think twice.If he stays true to the ideals that he talked about and says he will do, no matter what, if he stays true to it, he said, Ill vote for him.And in a Virginia auditorium, Ms. Spanbergers willingness to listen to her critics did not appear to win her additional votes  but she did earn some measured respect from Ms. Swanson, the conservative coalition founder, who said she went to the town hall believing that her new representative was a very liberal and socialist Democrat.Her respectfulness changed how I think of her personally, maybe not the party, Ms. Swanson said.We will see, she added as she left. Time will tell. People can tell you anything.Catie Edmondson reported from Nephi, and Emily Cochrane from Milford, Mich.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.The U.S. pushes allies to block Huawei, Venezuela faces mounting international pressure and India struggles to keep troublemaking monkeys in line. Heres the latest:Over the past year, the Trump administration has embarked on a global campaign to pressure allies to prevent Huawei and other Chinese firms from helping build out 5G networks.The U.S. has suggested to Poland that future deployments of American troops could hinge on whether the country works with Huawei. And in Germany, American officials warned that working with Huawei could pose a security risk to NATO.Why: The U.S. believes that whoever controls the high-speed 5G internet networks will have an economic, military and intelligence edge for much of this century. The Trump administration has therefore adopted a zero-sum calculus in which Beijing  and companies perceived to be working for the Chinese government  must be shut out.Whats next? The U.S. campaign may complicate the round of trade talks with China beginning in Washington later this week, particularly as Beijing seeks to free Huaweis chief financial officer, Meng Wanzhou, who was arrested in Canada at the request of the U.S.President Trump temporarily reopened the government on Friday, but the clock is ticking. He warned that he was ready to renew the confrontation or bypass Congress altogether if Republicans and Democrats couldnt agree on funding for a border wall by Feb. 15.On the same day the president bowed to pressure, the special counsel indicted one of his longtime advisers, Roger Stone, revealing the most direct link yet between the Trump campaign and the WikiLeaks effort to release hacked emails from the Democratic Party.Heres a profile of Mr. Stone and an explanation of what his indictment means. And heres a visual representation of how many times the Trump campaign had contact with Russian nationals and WikiLeaks.Analysis: The combination of the shutdown and the Stone indictment may have damaged the presidents leverage. According to some estimates, the American economy lost at least $6 billion during the 35-day stalemate. And Mr. Trumps poll numbers were dragged down, stirring concerns among Republican leaders about his ability to navigate the next two years of a divided government.European countries  including the Netherlands, Germany, France, Spain and Britain  urged President Nicols Maduro to hold new elections within eight days.If Mr. Maduro doesnt commit to fresh elections, the European governments will recognize the opposition leader, Juan Guaid, as the interim president of Venezuela.Analysis: The ultimatum presents a new layer of uncertainty in a deepening political crisis. Mr. Guaid, who proclaimed himself the legitimate leader of the country, urged protesters to keep the pressure on the government if they dare to kidnap me.Mr. Maduro has done an about-face and appeared to be striking a more conciliatory tone. He backed down from demanding that all American diplomats leave the country. And his government has refrained from detaining Mr. Guaid as support for the opposition leader grows at home and abroad.The U.S. and the Taliban wrapped up six days of negotiations to end the 17-year conflict in Afghanistan. Both sides reported progress  a first in nine years of intermittent peace efforts.Details: Though much remains to be ironed out, the deal would kick off a phased withdrawal of American troops in exchange for a Taliban cease-fire. The Taliban would also have to pledge not to allow international terrorist groups to use Afghanistan as a planning hub. How the Taliban would share power with the Afghan government remains to be resolved.Caution: Most observers dont believe Afghan forces have the ability to stand up against the Taliban without American support, leaving any truce in a precarious state once the U.S. leaves.Another angle: The toll of the war has been immense  at least 62,000 Afghan military and police lives, and possibly as many Taliban lives, and more than 24,000 Afghan civilians killed over the last decade alone. One photographer set out to capture the makeshift prosthetics some Afghans use.Coming this week: The British Parliament votes on amendments to Prime Minister Theresa Mays latest Brexit plan, and the U.S. Federal Reserve meets (but will probably hold off on raising interest rates).Philippines: Two bombs exploded at a cathedral on the southern island of Jolo, killing 20 people and wounding many others, officials said. The attack came days after voters had rejected a bid to include the Jolo in a Muslim autonomous area, sparking fears of separatist reprisals.Indonesia: At least 68 people have died and nearly 7,000 have taken refuge in emergency shelters on the island of Sulawesi after floods, landslides and a tornado battered the region last week.Facebook: Mark Zuckerberg plans to merge all of the social media platforms messaging services  WhatsApp, Instagram and Messenger  at a time when the company has been scarred by scandal. The services will continue to operate as stand-alone apps but will be more unified, allowing users to communicate across the platforms.Brazil: A dam in southeastern town of Brumadinho collapsed, leaving 34 people dead and almost 300 missing in the deadliest mining accident in the countrys history.Gandhi: Around the world, the man who led India into independence is still revered as a peaceful revolutionary. But his halo has dimmed for the Hindu right and lower castes.Germany: A panel drawn from the power industry, environmental movement, miners and local interest groups laid out a plan to end the countrys use of coal power within two decades, the most significant national attempt yet to reduce carbon emissions.The Holocaust: On her way to visit Auschwitz, our reporter found Heil Hitler signs and other Nazi swag at a flea market in Poland, where laws regulating such sales are little enforced.Australian Open: In a stunning career revival, Novak Djokovic beat Rafael Nadal for his 15th Grand Slam title. And Naomi Osaka became the first Asian player to clinch a No. 1 ranking globally after defeating Petra Kvitova for her second Grand Slam title.Amazon: Vine Voices  trusted product reviewers the company has designated since 2007  have become a powerful yet secretive force on the e-commerce platform.Taj Mahal: In an effort to stop mischievous monkeys from attacking tourists near the famous landmark, Indian security guards are turning to an unusual weapon of choice  slingshots.#ThankGodItsMonday? A new workplace culture has emerged in recent years that glorifies the hustle and encourages employees to put in long hours. Our technology reporter considers whether thats sustainable.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: For a quick dinner, make soba noodles into a salad with edamame, carrots and spinach.You can silence notifications on your phone without missing the really important ones.Intense exercise could reduce your interest in food, some studies suggest.Happy Data Privacy Day!Or, maybe not so happy. In the years since the celebration was born in Europe and then adopted in the U.S. and Canada, digital privacy has become a mainstream concern.This writer covers personal tech for a living. And Ive lost count of how many times hackers have breached companies computer systems and stolen customers credit card numbers, and worse. (Thanks, Equifax, Marriott and Facebook.)Digital privacy is no joke. If you do one thing to protect your data today  or this week, or this year  set aside a few hours to beef up the strength of your passwords.Make sure every password you use for logging in to a site or an app is unique and complex. Password management apps like 1Password or LastPass make it easy, by letting you use one master password to access a vault of all your passwords.Trust me, youll feel a lot better.Brian X. Chen, the lead consumer technology writer at The Times, wrote todays Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.) Good morning. U.S. and China officials kick off trade negotiations in Beijing, Chinese authorities target Uighur intellectuals and the Golden Globes are about to get underway. Heres the latest:Midlevel U.S. trade officials are starting two days of negotiations with their counterparts in Beijing today. The talks could pave the way to meetings in Washington in a few weeks between a delegation of senior Chinese officials; Robert Lighthizer, Mr. Trumps top trade negotiator; and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary.China, which appears hobbled by the trade war, has offered a mix of concessions. The U.S. might be losing its leverage, as companies cut revenue forecasts and with future interest rate hikes on the horizon that could weaken the economy.Timing: Both sides are trying to defuse trade tensions ahead of a March 2 deadline, when U.S. tariffs on $200 billion of Chinese goods will increase to 25 percent from 10 percent.For years, educated Uighurs functioned as a bridge between the minority Muslim and Turkic communities of far western China and the wealthier Han Chinese, working with them to better the lot of the minority group and preserve Uighur culture.But more than 100 Uighur scholars, including university professors, computer programmers, poets and writers, have been swept up in the Chinese governments crackdown in Xinjiang, which has ensnared almost a million people in indoctrination camps.Why it matters: The detention of the most accomplished Uighurs underscores the Communist Partys attempt to erase the communitys unique identity  and also removes a force that worked to integrate Uighur society into modern China.President Tsai Ing-wen called on domestic and international support for the islands independence, a rebuke to Xi Jinping, the Chinese president, who days earlier said unification with China was inevitable.Why it matters: The unusually firm comments helped Ms. Tsai position herself as a defender of democracy and inspired a groundswell of support ahead of next years elections. It also may reinforce support from the U.S.Context: The U.S. broke ties with Taiwan in 1979, when it had been under martial law for decades, to establish full relations with Beijing. Since Taiwan embraced democracy in the 1990s, many in Washington have seen it as a like-minded partner and a bulwark against Chinas influence.Negotiations over the weekend appeared to offer little hope of an immediate agreement between Democrats and President Trump over his demands for a border wall. Democratic leaders have repeatedly said they will not agree to any funding for the wall, which Speaker Nancy Pelosi called an immorality. And the White House is also digging in, insisting on $5.7 billion in wall funding, even as some Republicans have started calling for an end to the shutdown.Analysis: The idea of the border wall, which Mr. Trumps advisers said they initially created to remind Mr. Trump to talk tough on immigration during his campaign, has boxed in the president. Hes now struggling to find a way to please both his core supporters and conservative skeptics who see the wall as ineffective.In Opinion: Our columnist David Leonhardt builds a detailed argument that Mr. Trump is demonstrably unfit for office and must go, but that a rushed impeachment could actually help him remain in office.Week ahead: The British Parliament will resume debating Brexit terms and the U.S. Fed may release some clues on whether it will continue to raise interest rates.Syria: Two Americans were caught fighting for ISIS, according to the Syrian Democratic Forces. The arrests came on the same day President Trumps national security adviser, John Bolton, said a retreat from Syria was conditional on the defeat of the terrorist group, reversing Mr. Trumps surprise announcement last month of withdrawing thousands of American troops from the country.$3 million: Thats the record-breaking price a restaurant owner who calls himself the King of Tuna paid for an endangered 612-pound bluefin tuna at an auction in Tokyos new fish market.Pakistan: For centuries, dancers in Lahore were famed and respected, employed by the courts to perform for royal audiences. But the rise of religious conservatism in recent decades has pushed the art form, called nautch, underground, forcing some dancers to turn to prostitution.Malaysia: Sultan Muhammad V, two years into a five-year term, became the countrys first monarch to abdicate, after reportedly marrying a 25-year-old former Russian beauty queen while on medical leave from his largely ceremonial position.Populism: The global movement appears to be entering a new phase. The migration and terrorism crises that fueled its rise have eased, leaving populist leaders a stripped-down message of opposition to pluralism, multiculturalism and international cooperation.Hungary: Protesters took to the streets again this weekend, marching against the countrys new so-called slave law, which compels workers to put in overtime without full or immediate compensation.Yellow Vests: Protests in France, the first of the year, turned violent as a government ministry building was attacked and skirmishes broke out between demonstrators and the police.Schism: The spiritual leader of Eastern Orthodox Christians worldwide recognized the independence of the Orthodox Church of Ukraine in a four-hour ceremony in Istanbul, formalizing a split with the Russian church to which it had been tied for more than four centuries.Golden Globes: Heres a look at the movies that might take home the top prizes at this years award ceremony, which kicks off imminently.Want to tidy up? Heres some inspiration  researchers have found that a cluttered home leads to increased stress and procrastination.Worlds fastest (for her age): A 92-year-old woman in Australia has broken several world records for racewalking since she started her athletic career about seven years ago. And she has no plans to slow down.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Make a hearty stew of lentils, roasted eggplant and orzo.Ladies, we have a few thoughts on pubic waxing.What to do if you fear youre about to be fired.The annual International Consumer Electronics Show, the showcase for the worlds biggest consumer electronics companies, begins this week in Las Vegas. We asked Brian X. Chen, our lead consumer technology writer, how he manages to report on this vast trade show.The first CES I covered was for Wired in 2009, so this will be my 11th consecutive year. Heres how I stay sane while reporting on one of the most sprawling and, frankly, stressful trade shows in the world.To help me focus on the most newsworthy topics, I do pre-briefings, where companies tell me what they are going to unveil  so long as I pledge not to reveal anything early.For weeks, my inbox has exploded with requests for meetings, often with obscure start-ups. (In the eight hours before I wrote this, I received 85.) Sometimes I agree, but usually these pitches arent the right fit.The show covers about 2.7 million square feet, so I wear comfortable, sturdy boots. I carry my laptop, a bulky battery pack for my phone, trail mix, business cards and, most important, hand sanitizer. (Despite this precaution, Ive returned with what we veterans call the CES plague about six times.)That reminds me: I should stop by the pharmacy for more hand sanitizer.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.An earlier version of this briefing misstated the number of times Brian X. Chen has attended International CES. This is his 11th consecutive year, not 10th.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byEnough with the endless talks and handshakes. We need to untie the American economy from China.By Derek Scissors and Daniel BlumenthalMr. Scissors and Mr. Blumenthal are experts on China at the American Enterprise Institute.The Trump administration has been clear about its view of China. A 2017 national security strategy document called China a revisionist power attempting to reorder international politics to suit its interests. Its difficult to think otherwise given Beijings military buildup, its attempts to undermine American influence and power, its retaliations against American allies such as Canada, and its economic actions.How to respond is more controversial. After years of unsuccessful talks and handshake deals with Beijing, the United States should change course and begin cutting some of its economic ties with China. Such a separation would stop intellectual property theft, cut off an important source of support to the Peoples Liberation Army and hold companies that are involved in Chinese human rights abuses accountable.This will be no easy task. Some industries will have problems finding new suppliers or buyers, and there are entrenched constituencies that support doing business with China. They argue that any pullback could threaten economic growth. But even if American exports to China fell by half, it would be the equivalent of less than one-half of 1 percent of gross domestic product. The cost of reducing Chinese imports is harder to assess, but there are multiple countries that can substitute for China-based production, none of them strategic rivals and trade predators.The United States economy and its national security have been harmed by Chinas rampant theft of intellectual property and the requirement that American companies that want to do business in the country hand over their technology. These actions threaten Americas comparative advantage in innovation and its military edge.Even uncoerced foreign investment in technology can strengthen the Chinese military-industrial complex, especially since the Communist Party has moved, since President Xi Jinping took office in 2012, to a defense industrial policy that translates in English to civil-military fusion. In practice, many Chinese and foreign civilian companies serve as de facto suppliers for the Chinese Army and its technological-industrial base. Residents and visitors are subject to constant visual surveillance, and a nascent social credit program in which disobedience to party dictates is reflected in credit scores, which could affect everything from home purchases to job opportunities. These forms of social control often use technology developed by Western companies.The United States should make major adjustments to its economic relationship with China. Comprehensive tariffs, which harm American consumers and workers unnecessarily, are not the right reaction. But neither are admonishments to just let the market work.The scale of Chinas industrial-policy distortions, technology thievery and efforts to modernize its army are too significant for such superficial responses. The American government must intervene in the market when it comes to China, although that intervention should be limited to areas that are genuinely vital to national security, prosperity and democratic values.For example, the United States government should impose sanctions on the Chinese beneficiaries of intellectual property theft and coercion, in cooperation with our allies. This was the legitimate target of the United States trade representatives original inquiry in August 2017 under Section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974, but the policy steps chosen  tariffs  focus on the trade deficit instead of loss of intellectual property.Rather than across-the-board tariffs, Chinese companies receiving stolen or coerced intellectual property should not be allowed to do business with firms in America or, with our allies cooperation, in Europe and Japan. The United States should also intervene to halt foreign investment in any technology that assists the Chinese Army or contributes to internal repression and limit the access to global markets of any Chinese company that is tied to human rights abuses and army modernization. Taking these actions would require an enormous amount of intelligence collection by American security agencies as well as crucial information from American companies. The latter is difficult to obtain: Out of fear of Chinese retribution, the foreign business community will cooperate only if there is a clear, bipartisan and long-term commitment by the American government.While the United States must act unilaterally if necessary, the cooperation of allies such as Japan, Germany and Britain would make these steps more effective. Such countries have their own interests in China. Imposing sanctions in the name of national security on the European Union and China, as the Trump administration has threatened, would unwisely give them common cause.Previous efforts to assert Americas influence against China, such as the discarded Trans-Pacific Partnership, did not push back effectively on Chinese economic aggression. Working with allies to directly address Chinas malfeasance would. All this means putting China at the top of American international economic priorities and keeping it there for years, without overstating or overreacting to trade disputes with our allies.The administration has demonstrated some good instincts on China, but it must not be distracted by the next round of Beijings false economic promises. Protecting innovation from Chinese attack makes the United States stronger. Hindering the Chinese security apparatus makes external aggression and internal repression more costly for Beijing.China is our only major trade partner that is also a strategic rival, and we should treat it differently from friendly countries with whom we have disputes. If Washington wants the global free market to work, it must intervene to blunt Beijings belligerence.Derek Scissors (@DerekScissors1) is a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, where Daniel Blumenthal (@DAlexBlumenthal) is the director of Asian studies.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Sharon LaFraniereWASHINGTON  A federal judge in Washington has extended the term of a grand jury hearing evidence uncovered by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, in his investigation into Russias interference in the 2016 presidential race and the Trump campaign.The jurors, impaneled in July 2017, will continue to meet for up to six months. Beryl A. Howell, the chief judge of the Federal District Court in Washington, approved the extension ahead of the scheduled expiration of the grand jurys term this week.The extension underscores that Mr. Muellers team continues to pursue leads about Russias covert effort to influence the results of the 2016 election, and whether anyone in the Trump campaign conspired with Moscow to help Donald J. Trump triumph over Hillary Clinton.The prosecutors working for Mr. Mueller are believed to be writing a report for senior Justice Department officials summarizing their findings, but it is unclear how detailed it will be or how or whether it will be made public, including whether the White House could interfere with its release. Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York and the new chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, told CNN on Friday, We will make sure it is public.Asked whether the evidence so far warrants a congressional effort to impeach Mr. Trump, Mr. Nadler replied, No, not yet. He added, We have to see what the Mueller report says.Mr. Nadlers committee plans to speedily seek to question Matthew G. Whitaker, the acting attorney general who is now overseeing Mr. Mueller, about whether the special counsels inquiry will be free of political interference. The presidents critics fear that he installed Mr. Whitaker in the post to tie prosecutors hands.A grand jurys term typically is limited to 18 months, but it can be extended for up to six months if the court determines that it would serve the public interest.Since Mr. Mueller was appointed in May 2017, the special counsels team has secured criminal convictions of a string of former aides to President Trump, including his former campaign chairman, former deputy campaign chairman and former national security adviser. Prosecutors have also turned over evidence to United States attorneys in and around Washington and New York, resulting in still more criminal cases.Last month, Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trumps former longtime fixer and lawyer, was sentenced to three years in prison in part for lying to Congress about a lucrative hotel deal in Moscow that the Trump Organization pursued while Mr. Trump was running for president. Mr. Cohen also admitted that at Mr. Trumps direction, he organized hush-money payments to two women whose allegations of extramarital affairs with Mr. Trump might have derailed his presidential campaign.And later in December, the sentencing of the presidents first national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn, on his conviction for lying to investigators was postponed after a dramatic court hearing in which a federal judge implied he would sentence Mr. Flynn to prison, expressing disgust about his crimes.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Annie Karni and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON  Jared Kushner, the presidents son-in-law, was confident in his ability as a good-faith negotiator who could find a compromise to end the government shutdown.His pitch to Democratic lawmakers was simple: He told them he was the person who could land this plane.Buoyed by his success in helping pass a criminal justice bill, Mr. Kushner, a senior White House adviser, agreed to take the lead when the president asked him to find a way to end the monthlong stalemate. He hoped his experience winning over Democrats skeptical of the Trump administration during negotiations for that measure would produce a similarly successful conclusion.But negotiating a broad immigration deal that would satisfy a president committed to a border wall as well as Democrats who have cast it as immoral proved to be more like Mr. Kushners elusive goal of solving Middle East peace than passing a criminal justice overhaul that already had bipartisan support.For one, Mr. Kushner inaccurately believed that moderate rank-and-file Democrats were open to a compromise and had no issue funding a wall as part of a broader deal.If Jared Kushner thinks there is any daylight between House Democratic leadership and rank-and-file members on this issue, then the extent that he lands this plane it will land in the Alamo, said Representative Hakeem Jeffries, Democrat of New York.And Democratic leaders like Senator Chuck Schumer, party officials said, did not believe that Mr. Kushner had the power to circumvent Stephen Miller, a senior policy adviser to the president. In meetings, they also noticed, Mr. Kushner appeared to prop up Mr. Miller as an expert on immigration, noting that Mr. Millers reputation as a hard-liner was out of sync with his reasonable nature.On Friday, President Trump did what Mr. Kushner had privately insisted was not an option on the table: He folded.Standing in the Rose Garden, Mr. Trump announced he was ending the standoff, during which he had failed to convince Democrats to fund a $5.7 billion border wall, and was reopening the federal government for three weeks.It was a stunning setback for the president and for Mr. Kushner, who had told colleagues that public opinion would move to their side and that Speaker Nancy Pelosi would emerge as the one who looked unreasonable and intransigent.Mr. Kushner had advised the president against declaring a national emergency, which would enable him to get funding for his wall without approval from Congress. Instead, he ultimately pushed Mr. Trump toward the announcement he made on Friday, supporting it as a way to buy more time to reach a deal.Mr. Trump, White House aides said, has been frustrated at everyone around him for not delivering a deal he can accept. And he has become wary of his son-in-laws advice on this issue, the aides said.This account is based on interviews with more than a dozen congressional officials, White House aides and people involved in the immigration debate.On Capitol Hill, aides said, Mr. Kushner had positioned himself as the person who could sell the president on a compromise, casting himself as a facilitator who did not lobby for details of any proposal but simply wanted to find a solution that both sides could claim as a victory.Mr. Kushner has told Mr. Trump that he should spend the next three weeks trying to achieve a broader immigration package. That challenge has eluded both parties for years, but Mr. Kushner has suggested to colleagues that it is worth trying for, according to West Wing aides.The president appears to have internalized the advice. 21 days goes very quickly, Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter on Saturday morning. Negotiations with Democrats will start immediately. Will not be easy to make a deal, both parties very dug in. The case for National Security has been greatly enhanced by what has been happening at the Border & through dialogue. We will build the Wall!But Democrats said they do not believe that Mr. Kushner will have better luck drafting a larger deal in the next few weeks. Unless hes able to convince his father-in-law to abandon his obsession with building a medieval border wall, then hes not going to be successful in finding a bipartisan agreement, Mr. Jeffries said.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, however, noted that Mr. Kushner was still seen internally as one of the administrations most successful negotiators, pointing to his involvement with the criminal justice bill as well as the new North American trade deal. Jared is a key player in the administration and will continue helping the president accomplish his top priorities, she said in an email.But for now, Mr. Kushner appears to have few allies, occupying what people close to him describe as a no-win position.Mr. Kushner finds himself with little sway over Democrats, who consider the substantial changes that the White House keeps proposing for asylum seekers to be poison pills. And conservatives are not convinced Mr. Kushner is the right person to negotiate a deal. They recognize he has Mr. Trumps ear, but worry he does not understand the fault lines of the debate or what proposals will anger Mr. Trumps base. One proposal that was reviewed, which would give green cards to 700,000 undocumented young immigrants, enraged conservatives.Within the White House, several aides said, Mr. Kushner is not interested in opinions that vary from his, and tends to view people who disagree with him as problems, closing them out of discussions. People close to Mr. Kushner, however, speaking on the condition of anonymity, have described him as working well with West Wing colleagues, particularly the legislative affairs director, Shahira Knight, a veteran of Capitol Hill.But even Mr. Kushners allies concede that when it comes to immigration, he has not grasped the emotional nature of the fight the way he did when he tackled the criminal justice overhaul, an issue that was personal because of his fathers own incarceration.Mr. Kushner, allies said, sees the $5.7 billion request for border wall money as reasonable, and has compared it to one month of troop deployments in Afghanistan. He views Ms. Pelosi as trophy hunting, or trying to take down the president politically with the shutdown.Allies of Mr. Kushner say that not all of his discussions with Democrats have been publicized, and that he has gained trust partly because he keeps his conversations confidential. But on Capitol Hill, many Democrats said discussions on immigration have been scarce.Senator Dick Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, was given no notice about Mr. Trumps announcement last weekend in which he offered temporary protections for young undocumented immigrants in exchange for wall money, according to a congressional aide. Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, heard from Mr. Kushner only once, when he phoned before the presidents prime-time address from the Oval Office to warn him that the moment would move public opinion to the presidents side. Mr. Jeffries, who worked closely with Mr. Kushner on criminal justice reform, had no conversations about forging a bipartisan immigration bill.Some Democrats, however, gave Mr. Kushner credit for at least trying to keep a dialogue going, even if it did not result in a compromise.We disagreed on the issue, but talking is essential in a divided government, especially if we want to solve any problems, said Representative Josh Gottheimer, Democrat of New Jersey.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported bywith interestBy Charlotte CowlesWant this column in your inbox? Sign up here.Heres your weekly smorgasbord of all the tech and business news you missed, plus what you should know heading into Monday. Enjoy the beginning of baseball season if thats your thing, or the rest of the first week of spring if its not.March 17-23Good news for your loans: The Fed indicated Wednesday that interest-rate increases are probably off the table for the rest of the year. Now the bad news: The economy may be slowing faster than some people  like President Trump  would like to think. The central bank lowered its growth forecast to 2.1 percent, down from its 2.3 percent prediction in December  and well below the 3.2 percent that the White House envisions. Why the cool-off? The afterglow of the 2017 tax cuts has waned, the China trade war doesnt seem to be ending anytime soon and other countries economies are stagnating.Boeing took its first major customer blow since two of its 737 Max 8 jets crashed within five months of each other. Although no one knows what exactly caused the incidents yet, Indonesias national airline asked on Friday to cancel an order of 49 planes, worth $4.9 billion. Boeing has been scrambling to fix its best-selling fleet, which is currently grounded, by standardizing extra safety features and rolling out a software update.European Union leaders took mercy on British Prime Minister Theresa May on Thursday by granting an extension to the March 29 deadline for Britains withdrawal from the bloc. It comes with conditions, though. If Mrs. May can convince Parliament to accept her Brexit plan in the next week, then shell have until May 22 to enact it. But theyve already rejected it twice, so that could be a nonstarter. Which brings us to plan B: Britain gets a shorter delay, until April 12, although its hard to believe anything could be solved by then. Plan C is that Britain could ask for even more time.March 24-30Ready for the next wave of hot stocks? This Friday, ride-hailing company Lyft is shooting for the biggest initial public offering the tech world has seen since 2014 (when the juggernaut Alibaba went public at $169 billion). Lyft hopes to be valued at an optimistic $23 billion, considerably more than the $15.1 billion valuation from its last private funding round. Silicon Valley will be watching closely. A number of other young tech companies are planning to follow in Lyfts I.P.O. footsteps shortly, including Lyfts biggest rival, Uber (whose valuation goal dwarfs Lyfts, at $120 billion), as well as Pinterest, Slack and Postmates.The costly trade war between the United States and China shows no signs of concluding, despite Mr. Trumps claims of progress. His delegates will travel to Beijing this week for another round of negotiations, followed by yet more talks in Washington in April. Perhaps complicating matters, Mr. Trump announced this week that hell probably keep high tariffs on Chinese goods in place even if an agreement is reached, just to make sure China holds up its end. Chinese President Xi Jinping will meet with European leaders soon in an attempt to keep trade relations from getting messy there, too. (None of this is helping Chinas flagging economy, by the way.)Apple will unveil new products on Monday at a media event at its headquarters in Cupertino, Calif. One will be a new video streaming service thats meant to compete with Netflix, Amazon and HBO. Another is a souped-up version of its Apple News app, which will offer a new paid tier that gives readers access to articles from participating magazines and news outlets that otherwise require a subscription. Apple is still hammering out partnerships with those publications, as many have balked at the terms its demanding.It was a big week for clothes. In honor of Levi Strauss & Companys I.P.O., traders got to go wild and wear jeans on the stock exchange floor. (The companys stock price rose 32 percent on its first day of trading.) Also improving wardrobes as well as the bottom line: Rent the Runway, which allows women to rent and return designer items, is now valued at $1 billion after its latest round of funding. And Instagram is rolling out a new feature that will make it even easier to shop straight from your feed without leaving the app (or your bed).An earlier version of this article misstated the model of Boeing plane that was involved in two recent fatal crashes. It was the 737 Max 8, not 787 Max 8.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byFirst WordsBy Frank GuanIf, in politics, words are weapons, they often prove themselves double-edged. So it was when, on the summer night that Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez learned that she had won a Democratic congressional primary over a 10-term incumbent, she provided a resonant quote to a TV reporter. I think what weve seen is that working-class Americans want a clear champion, she said, and there is nothing radical about moral clarity in 2018. Dozens of news videos and articles would cite those words as journalists worked to interpret what Ocasio-Cortezs triumph, repeated in Novembers general election, might represent for the American left and its newest star.Until recently, moral clarity was more likely to signal combativeness toward the left, not from it: It served for decades as a badge of membership among conservative hawks and cultural crusaders. But in the Trump era, militant certainty takes precedence across the political spectrum. On the left, moral clarity can mean taking an unyielding stand against economic inequality or social injustice, climate change or gun violence. Closer to the center, it can take on a sonorous, transpartisan tone, as when Senator Robert Menendez, a Democrat, and former Speaker Paul Ryan, a Republican, each called for moral clarity in the White House reaction to the murder of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi. And it can fly beyond politics altogether, as when the surgeon and author Atul Gawande writes that better health care does not take genius. It takes diligence. It takes moral clarity. We hear about moral clarity any time there is impatience with equivocation, delay, conciliation and confusion  whenever people long for rapid action based on truths they hold to be self-evident.Moral clarity is long defined by usage as a capacity to make firm, unflinching distinctions between evil and good, and to take action based on those distinctions. These are fighting words: They mean knowing the enemy, which is the first step to taking up arms against the enemy. But theyre potentially applicable to any side of a fight. What adrenaline does for the body, moral clarity does for semantics: It generates a surge of willpower, serving as a prelude to  and maybe a pretext for  combat.This zeal can be abundant on all sides of the battle. As a slogan, though, moral clarity has much more particular origins. There was, originally, only one way to be right about it.Moral clarity was literally forged in war. The phrase first became popular in the early 1950s, soon after the onset of the Cold War, then subsided slightly during the 1960s and 1970s. It would revive during the 1980s  as Ronald Reagan preached unrelenting struggle against the evil empire of the Soviet Union  and reach unprecedented heights in the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks. For decades, moral clarity functioned as a shibboleth, an efficient means of discovering, then assailing, anyone too weak-willed to wage war against Americas ideological foes or incipient spiritual collapse. And more than any other writer on the right, the Catholic neoconservative William Bennett  Reagans education secretary and the czar of George Bushs war on drugs  would be the one who became synonymous with moral clarity.Whether in foreign policy or domestic culture wars over narcotics, faith and sexuality, Bennett proved that a discourse of righteousness could pay political dividends. It was Bennett who, interviewed by CNN on the first anniversary of Sept. 11, regretfully observed that recent discourse seemed to be softening, trying to soften the memory of the previous years atrocity. Focus had to be maintained, he argued: We have to act. And to act, we have to have resolution. And for resolution, we have to have clarity. A graduate of Harvard Law School, Bennett cited Bruce Williss character in Die Hard as an exemplar of clarity while pushing confidently for an invasion of Iraq. In a book he had recently published, titled Why We Fight: Moral Clarity and the War on Terrorism, he preached the necessity of subjecting Americans to an aggressive re-education in our history, undistorted by the lens of political correctness and pseudosophisticated relativism. The chief enemies at home, it seemed, were postmodernist professors, multicultural activists and intellectuals like Susan Sontag, whose skepticism about the impending quest for vengeance overseas rendered them, effectively, traitors. Bennett was not alone in prosecuting such a claim: At the time, the former New Republic editor Andrew Sullivan suggested that the decadent left might constitute what amounts to a fifth column.During the 2004 presidential campaign, George W. Bush would defend the prosecution of the war he started by reiterating Bennetts themes  the vigilance and courage required for single-minded action, the flaccidity of dissent. I will continue to lead with clarity, Bush said during one news conference, in a resolute way. This clarity, of course, proved more perishable than first believed: American momentum in the Middle East soon petered out inside a self-made labyrinth, replete with traps and dead ends. An administration that had crowed about resolution and clarity soon found itself waffling, brutally and helplessly, between what Donald Rumsfeld parsed as known unknowns and unknown unknowns. If suppressing Al Qaeda meant taking over Iraq, did maintaining a hold on Iraq imply bombing Iran? How should the American state engage with the various hostile factions emerging from the cinders of Iraq? What, precisely, would be the morally crystal-clear approach to Syria?Over the past 15 years, the association of moral clarity with a bellicose approach to overseas affairs has faded only slightly. Rarely does international politics present a moment of such moral clarity, Charles Krauthammer wrote in The Washington Post in 2014  defending what others perceived, no less clearly, as an Israeli war of collective punishment that killed more than 2,000 Palestinians in Gaza, mostly civilians. (Moral clarity has been a euphemism in constant use through this conflict, as in Alan Dershowitzs book The Case for Moral Clarity: Israel, Hamas and Gaza.) After the death of John McCain, a fierce advocate for any and all wars, the senator was praised for his voice of moral clarity by Jennifer Rubin, another conservative columnist at The Post. Rubin contrasted McCains enthusiasm for doing the right thing overseas with the Trump administrations indifference to human rights, but President Trump himself was no stranger to the discourse of clarity regarding Muslims. Anyone who cannot name our enemy is not fit to lead this country, he said during a 2016 campaign speech, adding that anyone who cannot condemn the hatred, oppression and violence of radical Islam lacks the moral clarity to serve as our president.There seemed to be an opening, after Barack Obamas election, for moral clarity to become a liberal watchword. Perhaps the philosopher Susan Neiman, whose 2008 book Moral Clarity: A Guide for Grown-Up Idealists argued for a liberal re-embrace of such language, could have served as its Bennett. Yet by 2011, it had become clear that, regarding foreign policy and economics, the Obama White House would lean instead toward pragmatism and accommodation, not the stubborn force of moral commitment. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortezs congressional bid was preceded by a decade in which many youthful nonreactionaries despaired of democratic institutions ability to deliver any kind of systemic change  and chafed at the obtuse contempt with which older, more established liberals frequently reacted to demands for bolder action. Its only natural that, having been chosen to replace one such established Democrat, Ocasio-Cortez would argue that moral clarity was not the province of radicals or dreamy idealists, but exactly the kind of principled action her constituents had voted for.The weapon of clarity works differently depending on whos wielding it: It tends to be a blessing for insurgent underdogs and a curse for domineering overlords. For those already in power, clarity can be as tragically easy to obtain as the vanity it often resembles  a combination of narcissism and hubris thats liable to produce calamitous outcomes. In politics, as in all things, it should be possible to match decisive action with intelligent consideration. Clarity achieves only the first of those two; left to its own devices, taken as a virtue in itself, it tends to generate more problems than it solves. Strategic vision requires something more than narrow intensity. It develops by admitting its limits and working to understand the enemy at a high resolution  the kind that only humble relativity can access.Near the end of Moby-Dick, Ahab furiously addresses the clear spirit of clear fire, whom on these seas I as Persian once did worship. If any character in literature is an avatar of moral clarity, its Melvilles maniacal captain, who defies all omens of disaster and single-mindedly pursues revenge upon the being he has named his evil enemy. Such clarity gets him, and all but one of his crew members, killed. With such lessons in mind, its hard to read the recent Foreign Affairs essay by the latest secretary of state, Mike Pompeo  in which he presses for regime change in Iran and worshipfully references the power of moral clarity  without suppressing a certain shiver.Frank Guan is a literary critic whose reviews have recently appeared in Bookforum, Dissent and The Nation. This is his first article for the magazine.Sign up for our newsletter to get the best of The New York Times Magazine delivered to your inbox every week.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Hiroko Masuike(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.) Good evening. Heres the latest.1. President Trump struck some unifying notes in his second State of the Union address, and he also made an extended argument for his border wall.Our coverage includes video of the speech, and analysis, takeaways and fact-checks by our correspondents.The chambers Republicans broke out into chants of U.S.A.! U.S.A.! more than once. The many newly elected Democratic lawmakers also listening were less enthusiastic.Stacey Abrams, who drew wide attention in her narrow loss for Georgia governor, delivered the Democrats rebuttal, framed in terms of values and contextualized with her own biography._____2. President Trumps inaugural committee was ordered to turn over documents about its donors, finances and activities to federal prosecutors, meaning the investigations surrounding him have spread to virtually all aspects of his adult life: his business, his campaign, his inauguration (above) and his presidency.The subpoena shows interest in possible money laundering and whether foreigners illegally donated to the inaugural committee, which would constitute election fraud. But it is possible that the prosecutors do not suspect the inaugural committee itself of such violations.Separately, prosecutors are looking at foreign payments to three major law and lobbying firms  Mercury Public Affairs; the Podesta Group; and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom  that Paul Manafort, Mr. Trumps former campaign chairman, recruited to improve the image of a Ukrainian leader._____3. Pope Francis acknowledged for the first time that the Roman Catholic Church had a persistent problem of sexual abuse of nuns by priests and even bishops.He spoke at the end of a 40-hour visit to the United Arab Emirates, where he celebrated Mass with about 135,000 Catholics, above, in the largest public Christian rite in the history of the U.A.E.Nuns have accused priests in India, Africa and Italy in recent years, and a Vatican magazine recently reported that nuns were having abortions or giving birth to the children of priests. Asked about the issue on the papal plane as it returned to Rome, Francis said: Its true. There are priests and bishops who have done that.He said the Vatican had suspended some priests. Should more be done? Yes, he said. Do we have the will? Yes. But it is a path that we have already begun._____4. Call it a relief rally: Stocks are rising on earnings, and earnings arent even that good.Many companies that have reported have missed Wall Street forecasts, but over all, their stocks have risen by an average of 1.1 percent, the largest post-earnings jump in a decade. The market is being unbelievably kind, an equity strategist said.Analysts say the improved mood could propel stocks yet higher. Above, traders at the New York Stock Exchange today.Separately, Qatar and Exxon Mobil are planning a $10 billion natural gas investment in Texas, which will give Qatar greater access to Latin America. The move would also strengthen the relationship between Qatar, which is two years into a dispute with Saudi Arabia, and the Trump administration._____5. Four of Americas largest cities are under the dark clouds of major federal corruption investigations: Los Angeles, Chicago, Philadelphia and Atlanta.The investigations, three of our national correspondents write, raise questions not just about who else might be caught up in them, but also about whether there can be any lasting cure for the chronic corruption problems that seem to dog big cities, so often dominated by a single party or political machine.Based on the number of federal public corruption convictions in the last 30 years, the Chicago and Los Angeles metropolitan areas are the two most corrupt in America (above, F.B.I. agents raided the home of a Los Angeles City Council member in November). Philadelphia is eighth. Atlanta did not make the top 10, but the 2006 conviction of a former mayor still ripples._____6. The police officer who fatally shot a young black man in an Alabama shopping mall, mistaking the do-gooder for a gunman, will not be charged.The death of Emantic Bradford Jr. incited protests and raised questions about whether police officers are too quick to assume that a nonwhite person who is armed is a wrongdoer. The states attorney general found that the officer had reasonably exercised his duties.Officer 1s actions were reasonable under the circumstances and were consistent with his training and nationally accepted standards for active shooter scenarios, the report stated._____7. Global warming is melting glaciers in Greenland and Antarctica. On Monday, a report found that one- to two-thirds of Himalayan glaciers could melt by 2100, disrupting food and water supplies for two billion people.But ice is also vanishing a little closer to home  in lakes.Thousands of lakes in the Northern Hemisphere that used to freeze every winter are already seeing some years without ice, a new study found. Without a winter cover, lakes begin warming earlier in the year, affecting algae blooms and putting increased stress on fish and other organisms._____8. Our Rocky Mountains-based reporter took a photographer with her to the National Western Stock Show in Denver, a 16-day celebration of western heritage.They came away with a powerful look at how western wear helps modern-day cowboys maintain their identity, even as economic pressures make living off the land more difficult.Were not only ambassadors for the rodeo, said one cowgirl whose parents sold most of their cattle a few months ago because of soaring business costs, but of the western way of life._____9. If the hunting world wants to grow in America, its going to be up to the millennials.Thats Wade Truong, a 33-year-old chef in Virginia, whos part of a new generation of hunters seeking a direct connection with what they eat  and helping boost the number of the countrys hunting licenses to 15.6 million last year, up from 14.4 million in 2010.In other food news, our chief restaurant critic explains why complaining about your food to management (rather than online) is a good thing, and how to do it. The more specific your complaint, the more likely it is to be understood, he writes._____10. Finally, happy Lunar New Year.The holiday, one of the most important in many Asian countries, typically begins on the second new moon after winter solstice. But in the many countries that use the Gregorian calendar, including the U.S., the date changes every year. Above, celebrations in Hong Kong.Thats just one example of how calendars reveal the history and cultural values of the societies that created them. Most time-keeping traditions track the movement of the sun, moon and the stars, but some consider fortune telling and seasonal events. The Trobriand Islands off New Guinea, for example, use the autumnal swarming of sea worms to orient each year.Have a lucky night, and a great new year._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And dont miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Jonathan Martin and Alexander BurnsFormer Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., aware that concerns about his age could weigh on his candidacy if he runs for the White House, has discussed two steps that could reassure voters about electing a 78-year-old president next year.Mr. Biden and his top advisers are considering nodding to the rising next generation in Democratic politics  and elevating an heir  by announcing a running mate early, well before the nomination is sealed. Also under discussion is a possible pledge to serve only one term and framing Mr. Bidens 2020 campaign as a one-time rescue mission for a beleaguered country, according to multiple party officials.Such moves would amount to a big play that would send a signal about the seriousness of the election, and could potentially appeal to both liberal activists and general-election voters who are eager to chart the safest route toward defeating President Trump. But Mr. Biden is not sold on either approach, and both carry significant risks, chiefly that they could call further attention to the age of a candidate who would turn 80 in the White House.There is also the risk that Mr. Biden could appear presumptuous  even imperious  by choosing a running mate before the electorate has the chance to sift the field of candidates, presenting voters with a two-person package before anyone has voted for even the top spot on the ticket. More than a dozen people are running in the Democratic primary, including a record number of women and minorities, and announcing a running mate too soon could foreclose the possibility of uniting the party by inviting a popular runner-up to join the ticket later.[Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 campaign.]Still, the former vice president is clearly mindful of the need to have a ready answer for when voters and reporters ask him about his age if and when he enters the race, a decision that could come as soon as next month.Earlier this month, for example, he raised the issue over lunch with members of the Delaware congressional delegation.Senator Tom Carper, who is himself 72, said he offered a succinct response to Mr. Biden: Two words: Nancy Pelosi.Ms. Pelosi, the 78-year-old House speaker, is doing a hell of a job, Mr. Carper noted, a view that is widely shared by the sort of Democrats who will cast ballots in next years primary.But unlike Ms. Pelosi, Mr. Biden is facing a sprawling Democratic primary field, filled with younger contenders, in a party that has a history of elevating candidates who are new to the political scene. Mr. Biden was first elected to the Senate in 1972, a few weeks after one of his potential rivals, former Representative Beto ORourke of Texas, was born.While Mr. Biden currently leads all the primary polls, usually with about a third of the vote, his support skews toward the older end of the Democratic base. Both Mr. Biden and his top aides question whether he will be able to make deep inroads with millennial voters in a primary, and also whether he will be able to raise large sums of money online.Unlike a number of other candidates, such as Mr. ORourke and Senators Bernie Sanders, Kamala Harris and Elizabeth Warren, Mr. Biden has not spent years building a muscular digital operation aimed at stimulating online supporters to give money. So his team is mulling a host of unconventional steps, including several related to fund-raising, transparency and the mechanics of a campaign.But none would carry the impact of naming a running mate early or vowing to serve just one term.Two of Mr. Bidens closest advisers, Steve Ricchetti and Mike Donilon, have floated both possibilities in recent weeks. And they have been egged on by some Democratic lawmakers, who have urged the Biden associates to strongly consider the one-term pledge to immediately defuse the question about his age.Mr. Donilon has also, though not recently, discussed the general concept with Mark Salter, who was John McCains chief of staff and unsuccessfully lobbied Mr. McCain to make a similar vow when he ran for president at the age of 72 in 2008, according to people familiar with the conversation.It was about country first, said Mr. Salter, recalling Mr. McCains slogan. Biden could do the same thing now with the country in even more desperate straits. (Mr. Salter did not recall discussing the matter with Mr. Donilon.)[Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.]But Mr. Biden is uneasy with the prospect of pledging up front not to seek re-election, believing that it would make him a lame-duck president before he even takes office and cripple his ability to get anything done, according to some of his aides.He is more open to the idea of picking a vice president well before the customary time frame, which would be around the partys nominating convention next year.Some of his top advisers, speaking on the condition of anonymity, believe that naming a running mate before he is the nominee could not only mollify voters concerned about his age but also send a message about the sort of administration he would put in place. They have been interested in this strategy on and off for months, and CNN recently reported the conversations were stirring again.With a younger but still accomplished vice-presidential nominee at his side, Mr. Biden could hope to demonstrate his commitment to diversity and to restoring stability to Washington.Among the people Mr. Bidens close allies have discussed for the role are Stacey Abrams, the former Georgia House minority leader who narrowly lost a race for governor last year, and Ms. Harris and Mr. ORourke, if their campaigns appear to flag in the coming months.Mr. Biden and Ms. Abrams had lunch in Washington last week, and advisers to both declined to say if he had broached the subject of the vice presidency. Aides to Mr. Biden who spoke to him after the lunch said he told them he found Ms. Abrams incredibly impressive.Senator Chris Coons of Delaware, who has known Ms. Abrams since she was a college student because they were both Truman Scholars, said she would bring a lot to the ticket, but said he is torn because he would also like to have her as a colleague in the Senate.Jaime Harrison, a senior Democratic National Committee official who is considering a campaign for Senate in South Carolina, said the idea of Mr. Biden partnering with an African-American running mate had been widely speculated about in his state as a way to mobilize and energize the African-American base in the election.Mr. Biden is popular among South Carolina Democrats, a majority of whom are black, but his appeal as an older white man could be put to the test there in a race that features the most diverse set of candidates ever.And his lengthy Senate record includes important episodes that Mr. Biden may have to defend before black voters, such as his past support for draconian anti-crime legislation, for which he has expressed regret, and his handling of the 1991 Clarence Thomas-Anita Hill hearings.Its been the buzz for months, Mr. Harrison said of the suggestion that Mr. Biden settle early on a black running mate. Some people are saying it would be a way to give a nod to African-American women or the African-American community in general, because theyve given so much to the party.Mr. Bidens advisers stress that he is still finalizing his decision whether to run and is nowhere near determining whether to name a running mate early. And some of them grumble that neither Mr. Sanders, who is a year older than Mr. Biden, nor the 72-year-old current occupant of the Oval Office face the same amount of questions about his age.The former vice president, though, has said those questions are legitimate. At a speech last fall, Mr. Biden said it is totally appropriate for people to look at me and say, if I were to run for office again, Well God darn youre old. Well chronologically I am old.But he suggested that he is in fine shape, something his younger brother echoed earlier this year in a radio interview when he favorably compared Mr. Biden to Mr. Trump, who is obese and probably couldnt walk 18 holes of golf.There is some precedent for choosing a running mate early. In 1976, Ronald Reagan named Senator Richard S. Schweiker, a moderate from Pennsylvania, several weeks before the Republican convention where he lost a narrow battle with President Gerald Ford for the G.O.P. nomination.More recently, Senator Ted Cruz of Texas named Carly Fiorina, the former Hewlett-Packard executive, in a desperate and unsuccessful effort to overtake Mr. Trump ahead of the 2016 Indiana primary.Mr. Bidens team is discussing a very different scenario: not picking a running mate as a last resort but rather enlisting someone to shore up Mr. Bidens expected status as a front-runner.Despite his concerns about online fund-raising and generational churn in the Democratic presidential field, Mr. Biden would have powerful advantages over the current array of candidates, commanding deep respect and affection across nearly the entire Democratic coalition and boasting unmatched credentials on national security, international diplomacy and other matters of state.And that is exactly why some of his supporters would rather not have him rush to name a running mate.My general counsel would be to let the primary season play out a little bit before doing something like that, said Mr. Coons.Advertisement"
"President Trump suggested that he was unwilling to compromise with Democrats over his demands for a border wall, which have held up negotiations to end a government shutdown."
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Katie Rogers and Katie BennerWASHINGTON  The presidents lawyer had no clue when the report might arrive, or if it even would.Seated alone amid the tourists at the Trump International Hotel a few blocks from the White House on Friday, Rudolph W. Giuliani scrolled through a tablet with one hand and held a cellphone in the other as he waited for the news that the long-awaited report by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating the Trump campaigns ties to Russia, was done and had finally been delivered to the Justice Department.Keep in touch, he said to the person on the other end of the phone. Tell me whats going on, O.K.?Like the rest of Washington, Mr. Giuliani was tired of waiting.They said it was going to be at noon or 12:30, Mr. Giuliani told a reporter who approached him around half-past 1 p.m. According to his sources  according to everyones sources  Mr. Mueller was late to deliver on a report that has enthralled the capital, bedeviled the president and, at times, enticed the nation.As the hours ticked by, it seemed as if the report might never come. But at some point during the afternoon, unbeknown to the curious public and TV camera crews, a security officer from the special counsels office arrived at the Justice Department to deliver the report to Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general. Within minutes, it was in the hands of William P. Barr, the attorney general.At 4:05 p.m., a thunderclap rumbled around the capital, and hail began to fall. Fifty-five minutes later the skies cleared, and it was announced that Mr. Barr had finally received the report. And by the time Mr. Barr was sitting in his office on the fifth floor of the Justice Department on Friday night, reading the report  he was among a few people, including Mr. Rosenstein, who had access to it  Mr. Giuliani, who had been in the dark for much of the day, had changed his tone.We are confident the attorney general will make the right decision, Mr. Giuliani said in a statement. He has to consider the legal matters and rules. Im confident hell make the right call.[The special counsel has submitted his full report on Mr. Trump and Russia to the attorney general, who now must decide how much of it to release.]The assurance of the reports delivery was the capstone to a day marked by just how little anyone really knew.Beginning in the early morning, reporters and photographers clustered around the office building just blocks south of the National Mall where the special counsel has offices. At least a half-dozen news cameras positioned themselves outside the buildings garage, hoping to catch a glimpse of Mr. Mueller driving his sensible Subaru into a colorless, bureaucratic-looking complex.I have the report in my purse! one woman joked as she walked by.At one point, as two of Mr. Muellers investigators left for lunch, they noticed the cluster of cameras and quickly turned to cross the street. By 2 p.m., an increasingly impatient group wanted a sign of something  anything  that could hint at Mueller-related activity a mile away at the Justice Departments headquarters.Cameras flashed when two lead prosecutors investigating Mr. Trump for obstruction of justice  James L. Quarles III and Andrew D. Goldstein  left together in a BMW sedan headed in that direction. Rumors that had hatched about a noon report arrival were scuttled once Mr. Barr grabbed lunch in the departments subterranean cafeteria.[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]Outside, a lone protester got in on the action. The man, who would identify himself only as T. Pardy, told a reporter that the special counsel investigation was the fruit of the poison tree. He then began to bang on a five-gallon bucket, screaming FISA abuse.Not everyone took such a theatrical approach to the wait.Newt Gingrich, an occasional adviser to the president who as the House speaker vigorously defended the work of Ken Starr, the independent counsel who investigated President Bill Clinton, said that he had taken a laid-back approach to the reports arrival.Mr. Gingrich said in an interview that the public should get the chance to see Mr. Muellers report once it was in Mr. Barrs hands  with obvious exceptions, he added.Here are some pieces of the jigsaw puzzle. The full picture is missing.First of all, it may be interesting, Mr. Gingrich said. Second of all, it may actually tell us something.A low-key approach was similarly adopted at the White House, starting with the president.I have no idea about the Mueller report, Mr. Trump told a cluster of journalists in the morning before boarding Marine One and departing for Mar-a-Lago, his winter retreat in Florida.As the day drew on, observers on Twitter began placing their bets about the reports whereabouts, creating fictional explanations about Mr. Muellers activities.Robert Mueller sweating in front of his laptop, staring at a Word doc containing only the words The Mueller Report and a blinking cursor, the comedian Patrick Monahan wrote on Twitter, trying his hand at fan fiction.At that point, not even Peter Carr, Mr. Muellers famously tight-lipped spokesman, could seem to resist the fun people were having. Ha, Mr. Carr wrote in response to an NBC reporter who sent along Mr. Monahans tweet.Back at the White House, a cluster of aides who remained in the West Wing area accessible to journalists turned off the television. They seemed more concerned with a flooding issue that had emerged from Thursdays rains than the contents of the report, or when it might come.When it finally did come, the White House, which has led Trump supporters in a witch hunt chant at various points over the years, struck a relatively formal tone.The next steps are up to Attorney General Barr, and we look forward to the process taking its course, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the press secretary, said on Twitter. The White House has not received or been briefed on the Special Counsels report.But there was one indicator that Mr. Muellers report was at least somewhere near the back of the presidents mind: Emmet T. Flood, a lawyer for the president in the special counsel investigation, accompanied him to Palm Beach.After top Justice Department officials in Washington looked through the report, Mr. Barrs chief of staff, Brian Rabbitt, called Mr. Flood just after 4:30 p.m. to let him know that the department had the report, and gave Mr. Flood a readout of the letter that would be delivered to Congress.The letter contained important details, including the fact that Mr. Barrs summary of Mr. Muellers key findings could be sent to members of Congress as early as this weekend.The letter also said that there were no instances when Mr. Rosenstein; Matthew P. Whitaker, the former acting attorney general; or Mr. Barr told Mr. Mueller that he could not pursue an investigative action.Back at the Trump International Hotel, the speculation began. As she tucked herself into a booth, Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of homeland security, told a reporter that she had no idea when the report would come out before an aide shut down the conversation.At the bar, a pair of state prosecutors in town from Florida were enjoying a glass of wine and watching coverage of the Mueller report on two large televisions  one tuned to CNN, the other to Fox News.Ive stopped being surprised at the allegations, one of them, Bill Beaver, said, adding that he wanted to see what the report actually contained before making a judgment. We base our jobs in facts.Reporting was contributed by Annie Karni, Maggie Haberman, Michael D. Shear and Noah Weiland.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Ben HubbardERBIL, Iraq  In 2010, President Bashar al-Assad of Syria asked President Barack Obama in a private letter to sponsor new peace talks between Syria and Israel, a diplomatic chimera for a string of American presidents.The major sticking point was control of the Golan Heights, a rocky, strategic plateau at the flammable juncture between the modern states of Syria, Israel, Jordan and Lebanon, which Israel had seized in the Six-Day War of 1967.The talks never took off, and in 2011 a civil war erupted in Syria that would destroy the country and reshape the regional order to such an extent that when President Trump on Thursday called for the United States to recognize Israeli sovereignty over the Golan, the shift was met across much of the Arab world with a shrug.Today, the Gulf countries are more interested in partnering with Israel against Iran than in standing up for abstract notions of Arab dignity, and unrest and economic troubles have left other Arab countries more concerned with their own affairs.As for Syria, its own war has left the country so weak and ostracized that few care what it wants.The Golan was always seen as the carrot that Israel would cede for peace with Syria, and now peace doesnt matter, Syria doesnt matter and maybe Syria doesnt exist at the table as the legitimate owner of the land, said Kareem Sakka, editor in chief of Raseef22, an Arabic news site.The Golan Heights is a stunningly beautiful and strategic area that gives whoever controls it a distinct military advantage over the surrounding region. The Syrian military used it to shell the Galilee, and Israel seized it as a strategic asset that it considered necessary for its own security, displacing tens of thousands of the areas Arab inhabitants in the process.It was a stinging slap to the Arabs, who saw the Israeli occupation as yet another example of an international order that failed to enforce its own rules. Syria launched a failed attempt to take it back in the 1973 war, which ended with an armistice that brought in international observers but left most of the territory under Israeli control.In 1981, Israel effectively annexed the territory, a move rejected in a United Nations Security Council resolution based on the principle that the acquisition of territory by force is inadmissible.40 MilesSYRIALEBANONGOLANHEIGHTSMediterraneanSeaISRAELTel AvivWESTBANKJORDANJerusalemGAZASTRIPBy The New York TimesThe Israeli decision to impose its laws, jurisdiction and administration in the occupied Syrian Golan Heights is null and void and without international legal effect, the resolution read.But little was done to enforce it, and decrying the occupation became a staple talking point for President Hafez al-Assad, the current presidents father. In a country where nonsanctioned political activity was banned, rallies for the Golan were common and schoolchildren were taught to chant for its liberation.Despite this, it often remained the forgotten piece of the occupied territories. Sinai was returned to Egypt as part of a peace deal, and the fate of the West Bank and Gaza became the focus of peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians.The Golan was different. Its original inhabitants were not Palestinians, but Arabs from the Druze sect who mostly retained Syrian citizenship and avoided politics. The area has avoided the violence that has riled the Palestinian territories. Israel offered the Arab residents citizenship, but few have accepted it.Over time, Israel built dozens of settlements there, bringing the Jewish population to about 26,000 people and outnumbering the 22,000 Arabs. The settlers built orchards, wineries, boutique hotels and a ski resort, turning the area into an Israeli vacation spot.Various American presidents tried to revive Syrian-Israeli peace talks, ending with the effort by Mr. Obama and his secretary of state, John Kerry. But the Syrian civil war changed everything. With all of its resources dedicated to defeating rebels and jihadist groups, the Syrian government let the Golan slip down the priority list. As the war eroded the Syrian state, Israel built quiet relationships with rebels near the Golan, bringing some into Israel for medical care.Syrians who opposed the government noted that Mr. Assad had no trouble bombing his own cities and gassing his own citizens to keep power, while he had done almost nothing to liberate the Golan.Mocking the governments impotence in responding to Mr. Trump, Asaad Hanna, an antigovernment activist, joked on Twitter on Thursday that the Syrian government called on its people to perform a folk dance across Syria to respond to the brutal aggression toward the Golan.He who doesnt throw his heart into it, may God break his legs, Mr. Hanna wrote.Mr. Assads brutality has left him with few in the region willing to take his side on an issue of international law, said Hussein Ibish, a senior resident scholar at the Arab Gulf States Institute in Washington.The public, when they think about Syria, will be more concerned with the death and suffering than with the official loss of something that has been gone for a long time, he said.But Mr. Trumps recognition of the seizure of one states land by another could make it harder for the United States to push back when strongmen carry out land grabs.The notions of international order and international law are going to take a big hit here, Mr. Ibish said. Right now, what would we say to Saddam Hussein in Kuwait? We dont want you to be there. O.K., on what basis?Follow Ben Hubbard on Twitter: @NYTBen.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Buckley and Chris HortonBEIJING  Chinas president, Xi Jinping, warned Taiwan that unification must be the ultimate goal of any talks over its future and that efforts to assert full independence could be met by armed force, laying out an unyielding position on Wednesday in his first major speech about the contested island democracy.Mr. Xi outlined his stance one day after Taiwans president, Tsai Ing-wen, urged China to peacefully settle disputes over the island, whose 23 million people, she said, want to preserve their self-rule. But Beijing treats Taiwan as an illegitimate breakaway from Chinese rule, and Mr. Xi said unification was unstoppable as China rose.The country is growing strong, the nation is rejuvenating and unification between the two sides of the strait is the great trend of history, Mr. Xi told officials, military officers and guests in the Great Hall of the People in central Beijing.China would respect the Taiwanese peoples religious and legal freedoms in a unified one country, two systems framework, Mr. Xi said. But he warned that the profound political differences between Taiwan, a vibrant democracy, and China, a highly authoritarian government, were no excuse to reject unification.Different systems are not an obstacle to unification, and even less are they an excuse for separatism, Mr. Xi said. The private property, religious beliefs and legitimate rights and interests of Taiwanese compatriots will be fully assured.Mr. Xi also accompanied his offer of talks with a warning  one implicitly also aimed at the United States, which provides Taiwan with military equipment and the possibility of support in a crisis.We make no promise to abandon the use of force, and retain the option of taking all necessary measures, Mr. Xi said in a section of the speech that drew rousing applause. Those options, he said, could be used against intervention by external forces.The diverging positions staked out by Mr. Xi and Ms. Tsai have brought into focus how the disputed future of Taiwan remains a volatile question that could erupt into crisis, especially if either side misjudges the intentions of the other  or of the United States, a key ally that has strengthened support for Taiwan.Taiwans Mainland Affairs Council, which handles relations with China, said it did not have an immediate comment on Mr. Xis speech.Mr. Xis offer of dialogue appeared unlikely to win over Taiwanese wary of the idea that they could retain autonomy under Chinas principle of one country, two systems, Yun Sun, a researcher on Chinese policy at the Stimson Center in Washington, said by email after the speech.Xi is correct in that differences in political systems are the root of the problem, Ms. Sun said. But one country, two systems is unlikely to be the answer the Taiwanese people embrace.Mr. Xis speech was a sharp reminder that, even amid many other external disputes, Chinese leaders remain preoccupied with Taiwan, especially their concern that the island could defy their demands and embrace formal independence.China is Taiwans biggest trade partner, taking over 30 percent of its exports. Many Taiwanese, though, bridle at Beijing using its growing influence to isolate them from international participation, and to press them toward eventually accepting Chinese sovereignty over the island.Since coming to power in late 2012, Mr. Xi has warned Taiwan against any shift toward independence and repeatedly met with Taiwanese politicians from the Kuomintang, the party that ruled China before the Communist Party and that now favors closer ties with Beijing. But Mr. Xis address was his first major speech as president devoted to Taiwan, said Bonnie S. Glaser, an expert on Chinese foreign policy at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington.My initial impression is that the speech is a reaffirmation of current policy, Ms. Glaser said. She also noted that despite Mr. Xis renewed call for unification, he did not set a deadline. It is notable that there is no mention of a timetable or deadline for reunification  it is just a goal, she said.Mr. Xi indicated that Chinas multipronged pressure on Taiwan is likely to persist after Ms. Tsais Democratic Progressive Party, which is wary of moving closer to China, suffered stinging setbacks in local Taiwanese elections in November. The opposition Kuomintang won mayoralties in Taiwans three most populous cities, prompting Ms. Tsai to resign as leader of the Democratic Progressive Party, though she remains Taiwans president.Chinese state-run media have depicted the election reversals as a vindication of Mr. Xis approach to Taiwan: a battery of measures to isolate Taiwan and undercut its international standing since Ms. Tsai won the presidency in 2016.Taiwans status has been contested by Communist leaders since 1949, when Kuomintang forces defeated in the revolution retreated to the island. Tensions have resurged since the 1990s, when Taiwan became a democracy and many voters on the island turned to politicians who argue that Taiwan should keep China at a distance, or even assert outright independence.Ms. Tsais Democratic Progressive Party has been at the forefront of those independence-leaning views, and after she won power, China quickly cut high-level contacts, arguing that Ms. Tsai had failed to acknowledge that Taiwan and China are part of the same country.In the past three years, China has accelerated efforts to peel away countries from the list of those that give diplomatic recognition to Taiwan, officially known as the Republic of China. Last spring, the Dominican Republic and Burkina Faso established ties with China, and in August, El Salvador cut diplomatic ties with Taiwan, leaving 17 nations that maintain their diplomatic allegiance with the island.Mr. Xis speech commemorated the 40 years since China laid out a new approach to Taiwan soon after the United States switched diplomatic recognition from Taipei to Beijing at the start of 1979. But the United States has remained Taiwans most important partner, and the Trump administration has bolstered some support, to the consternation of Chinese officials.In March, President Trump signed the Taiwan Travel Act, which encourages official government exchanges between the United States and Taiwan. And in June, the United States dedicated a new $250 million unofficial embassy in Taipei.On the last day of 2018, Mr. Trump signed into law the Asia Reassurance Initiative Act, which tries to counter Chinas growing military influence. The section of the law on Taiwan reiterates American commitment to counter efforts to change the status quo and to support peaceful resolution acceptable to both sides of the Taiwan Strait. It also calls on the American president to send high-level officials to Taiwan and to regularly sell arms to the island.The United States and China have brushed close to military conflict over Taiwan: in the 1950s and in 1996, when President Bill Clinton dispatched two carrier groups to seas off Taiwan after China fired intimidating missiles ahead of a Taiwanese presidential election.The United States dispatched warships to the Taiwan Strait three times last year to show support for Taiwan. That was done under Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, whose resignation last month has left some question about the Americans involvement going forward.In his speech, Mr. Xi appears to implicitly make an argument that use of force should be a last resort, Ms. Glaser said. Of course, Xi has to leave that option on the table, but he makes clear it is not his preference.Chris Buckley reported from Beijing and Chris Horton from Yuli, Taiwan.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Julie Hirschfeld Davis and Michael TackettWASHINGTON  President Trump and Democratic congressional leaders dug in Wednesday for a lengthy partial shutdown in a newly divided government after a White House meeting  the first in 22 days  could not break an impasse over Mr. Trumps demands for billions of dollars for a border wall.During the contentious meeting in the Situation Room, Mr. Trump made his case for a wall on the southwestern border and rejected Democrats proposals for reopening the government while the two sides ironed out their differences.I would look foolish if I did that, Mr. Trump responded after Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, posed the question to him directly, according to three officials familiar with the meeting who described it on the condition of anonymity. He said that the wall was why he was elected, one of the officials said.Democrats were equally adamant, according to another official who was present for the discussion. Pressed by Vice President Mike Pence and Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the incoming minority leader, they refused to budge from their offer to devote $1.3 billion to border security. The official also insisted on anonymity to describe the private conversation.Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, said after the meeting that he had no intention of putting Democratic bills to reopen the government to a vote if Mr. Trump would not sign them.Were hopeful that, somehow, in the coming days and weeks, well be able to reach an agreement, Mr. McConnell told reporters at the Capitol, offering an ominous timeline.The events underscored the personal and political crosscurrents standing in the way of any compromise between a president unwilling to lose face with his core supporters on his signature campaign promise and newly empowered Democrats  poised to assume control of the House on Thursday  who refuse to give ground on an issue that has come to symbolize Mr. Trumps immigration policies.With the partial government funding lapse dragging into its 12th day and affecting 800,000 federal employees, the confrontation in the Situation Room only served to highlight the depth of the divide.Could be a long time, or it could be quickly, Mr. Trump said of resolving the shutdown. Its too important a subject to walk away from.Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, who is in line to be elected speaker on Thursday, said: We are asking the president to open up government. Why would he not do it?He could not give a good answer, Mr. Schumer said.Mr. Trump tried creative ways to persuade the Democrats that they should support his wall. At one point, he said Ms. Pelosi should back it because she was a good Catholic and Vatican City is surrounded by a wall, according to one of the officials familiar with the discussion.[Vatican City has walls, but they do not enclose the entire territory and visitors can easily enter some parts. Read more fact checks from the president's cabinet meeting on Wednesday.]In her first legislative act as speaker, Ms. Pelosi plans on Thursday to bring up two bills to reopen the government. One would fund the Department of Homeland Security through Feb. 8, providing a month to break the impasse over border security funding, and a second would provide money for the remaining shuttered agencies and departments through September. The homeland security measure would devote $1.3 billion to border security measures, such as enhanced surveillance and fortified fencing, but not the wall.Mr. Trumps rejection of those measures left the prospects of a resolution at their dimmest since the shutdown began on Dec. 22. It also highlighted the difficulty of the current situation, in which Democrats, Republicans and even some White House staff members have found themselves trying to anticipate what Mr. Trump will accept.The president asked the congressional leaders to return to the White House on Friday to continue the talks, after Democrats had completed their leadership elections, according to an official who attended the meeting. A second official who attended said Mr. Trumps team believed it would be easier for Ms. Pelosi to negotiate once she was officially installed as speaker. Both insisted on anonymity to describe the private gathering.In a pair of evening tweets, Mr. Trump seemed to hold out hope of an agreement, writing: I remain ready and willing to work with Democrats to pass a bill that secures our borders, supports the agents and officers on the ground, and keeps America Safe. Lets get it done!But the path to such a deal is murky at best.Before he met congressional leaders on Wednesday, Mr. Trump publicly rejected a compromise that Mr. Pence floated privately with Democrats last month to stave off the government funding lapse, saying $2.5 billion in border security spending was insufficient. In the hours before a midnight deadline to avert a shutdown before Christmas, the vice president had broached that number, which his team has quietly continued to push in the days after parts of the government ran out of money.No, not $2.5 billion, no  were asking for $5.6 billion, Mr. Trump said during a cabinet meeting, hours before the Situation Room briefing.His rejection of the figure seemed to confirm the concerns of Democratic leaders who had questioned whether they could trust senior White House officials to broker any compromise that could then be rejected by a president who has often shifted his position at the last moment, especially when it comes to immigration.The larger figure referred to the amount Mr. Trump has demanded for the wall, which the House endorsed in a vote last month, but which failed to garner even majority support in the Senate, where it would need 60 votes to prevail.But inside the Situation Room later on Wednesday, the proposal resurfaced and Mr. Trump appeared open to it, according to one of the officials present, as Mr. Pence and Mr. McCarthy pressed Democrats to meet in the middle. Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Schumer said $1.3 billion was their highest bid.Wednesdays gathering in the Situation Room, a secure chamber in the basement of the White House where military operations are tracked and other sensitive discussions unfold, was a conscious effort by Mr. Trump and his aides to infuse a sense of national-security crisis into the immigration discussion. It was the presidents first face-to-face meeting with Democratic leaders since a combative session last month when he said he would insist that any government spending bill include money for a border wall  and would proudly own the consequences if that meant a shutdown.But it quickly turned tense as Mr. Trump argued for his wall and called on Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, who appeared via teleconference from the border in San Diego to stress the need for it, according to two of the officials who were at the meeting.Mr. Schumer interjected, calling on Ms. Pelosi, who disputed Ms. Nielsens statistics, two of the officials said. Ms. Pelosi then laid out the legislative proposals she planned to bring up on Thursday, detailing how the spending measures had all received broad bipartisan support either in committees or on the floor in the Republican-controlled Congress.The back and forth drew an angry response from the Department of Homeland Security.Democrats in the room either dont care that there is a humanitarian crisis on the border or just prefer ignorance, Katie Waldman, a spokeswoman for the department, said in a statement on Wednesday night. It was incredibly disheartening that they dont want to know the facts when making policy.Yet hours before the meeting began, what was billed as a somber security briefing had already taken on the sharp tone of a political showdown, as Mr. Trump charged that Democrats were sacrificing border security for a partisan advantage in the 2020 elections.The United States needs a physical barrier, the president said during the cabinet meeting, comparing the southern border to a sieve that allows criminals and drugs to enter the country and facilitates human trafficking.Walls work, he added, claiming inaccurately that former President Barack Obama has one around his compound in Washington. (Parts of Mr. Obamas home in the northwest section of the city are bordered by a low brick retaining wall, and others have iron or chain-link fencing.)Mr. Trump repeated his false claims about the border wall, including that Mexico was already paying for it, as he promised during his campaign, and that much of its construction had already been completed.Outside the White House, the search for a way out is getting more urgent. Some lawmakers have grown anxious about the shutdowns impact on their constituents, including federal workers who are not receiving pay while their agencies are denied funding.Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, wrote an opinion article in The Washington Post suggesting three ways out: Grant the president the $1.6 billion for border security that he requested, without wall funding, plus an additional $1 billion for security at ports of entry; approve a bipartisan bill linking wall funding with protection for young immigrants brought illegally to the country as children; or resurrect the 2013 comprehensive immigration overhaul that included huge increases in border security measures, sweeping changes to immigration law and a pathway to citizenship for the nations 11 million undocumented immigrants.Incoming lawmakers vented new concerns about the shutdowns effect. This morning I requested that my pay be withheld until the shutdown is over, Representative-elect Mikie Sherrill, Democrat of New Jersey, said Wednesday on Twitter, where she posted a letter to the chief administrative officer of the House making her request official.She noted that thousands of federal workers in her state were not receiving paychecks. I came here to govern, not engage in partisan politics at the expense of hardworking Americans, she said.Peter Baker and Emily Cochrane contributed reporting.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Edward WongRIYADH, Saudi Arabia  Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said that he pressed Saudi Arabias crown prince on Monday on a range of thorny issues  including war, murder, diplomatic rifts and human rights abuses  that have weakened the American-Saudi alliance and increased tensions among Arab nations.At the same time, Mr. Pompeo reaffirmed the two nations shared goal of opposing Iranian policies in the Middle East.I want to talk to you about a couple of places weve been, Mr. Pompeo told Prince Mohammed bin Salman, the de facto ruler of Saudi Arabia, at the start of their morning meeting at the royal palace. We think we learned a lot along the way that will be important going forward.Prince Mohammed, apparently sensing the delicate political situation, said, Well try to add more positivity to your trip, as much as we can. And well try to cooperate more.Mr. Pompeo has been traveling through the Arab world since leaving Washington on Jan. 7, and Saudi Arabia is the most important stop on the trip.At each stop, Mr. Pompeo has talked about the importance of countering Iran, a country whose Shiite Muslim government is often at odds with the Sunni Muslim rulers of many nations in the region.We certainly talked about our effort to counter Iranian malign influence, Mr. Pompeo said at a news conference at the airport before flying to Oman, his final stop.Saudi Arabia is Irans main rival and an old American ally  as well as the United States biggest buyer of arms  though Prince Mohammeds actions are roiling the region and unsettling the kingdoms relationship with the United States.On Monday morning, Mr. Pompeo left Al Faisaliah Hotel in central Riyadh, the capital of Saudi Arabia, with a list of problems to discuss with Prince Mohammed and his father, King Salman.The list included the killing by Saudi agents in October of Jamal Khashoggi, an outspoken Saudi dissident who lived in Virginia; the Saudi-led blockade of Qatar, a crucial military partner of the United States; and the Saudi-led air war against Houthi rebels in Yemen, which has resulted in the worlds worst humanitarian crisis, with many Yemenis starving.The United States Embassy in Riyadh wrote on Twitter that Mr. Pompeo and Prince Mohammed had agreed Monday on the need for de-escalation and adherence to agreements reached at peace talks in Sweden over the Yemen war.Mr. Pompeo insisted on upholding the cease-fire and pullback of forces in the port city of Hudaydah, the embassy said. A comprehensive political solution is the only way to end the conflict, it said.Human rights abuses in Saudi Arabia are also under the international spotlight. On Sunday, The New York Times published an Op-Ed by Alia al-Houthlal, the sister of a womens rights activist imprisoned in Riyadh, Loujain al-Houthlal, beseeching Mr. Pompeo to ask Prince Mohammed for the release of her sister.Ms. Houthlal wrote that her sister had been tortured in prison, and that a close associate of the prince, Saud al-Qahtani, who has been implicated in the murder of Mr. Khashoggi, was present at several torture sessions.Over the weekend, Rahaf Mohammed Alqunun, an 18-year-old Saudi woman who had fled the kingdom, arrived in Canada after being granted asylum there.She has talked of the plight of women in Saudi Arabia and the oppressive system of male guardianship over women, despite Prince Mohammeds promotion of more liberal social policies in some areas.Mr. Pompeo said he had spoken to Prince Mohammed about concerns over the imprisonment of womens rights activists. Their commitment was that the process, the lawful judicial process here, would take place, he said. They understand the concerns that some have.But many of the most prominent activists being held have not been charged with any crimes, making it unclear what process Mr. Pompeo was referring to. Critics also question the independence of the judiciary in Saudi Arabia, one of the worlds few absolute monarchies, where few trials are open to the public or the news media.Amid the growing criticism of Saudi Arabia, Mr. Trump has voiced his backing of Prince Mohammed, 33, who has secured power in the kingdom by ousting his rivals, including detaining other members of the royal family in the Ritz-Carlton in Riyadh.But many other American officials, including in the State Department, Pentagon, C.I.A. and Congress, have been more circumspect and increasingly view the prince as an unreliable partner.The visit with Prince Mohammed on Monday was the first for Mr. Pompeo since an emergency trip in October, as the diplomatic crisis over the murder of Mr. Khashoggi was ballooning. In his previous visit, Mr. Pompeo flew to Riyadh and posed for photographs in which he shook hands with the prince and smiled, drawing intense criticism for the images of bonhomie.Since then, Mr. Pompeo has had regular calls with the prince, said a former American official.Mr. Khashoggi was killed and dismembered by a Saudi hit team while visiting the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul on Oct. 2, Turkish officials have said. The C.I.A. assessed that Prince Mohammed had ordered the killing.President Trump has declined to endorse that finding and has said the United States would continue its relationship with Saudi Arabia and with the prince, who is close to Jared Kushner, the presidents son-in-law and main Middle East adviser.Mr. Pompeo said at the Monday news conference that both the prince and his father, King Salman, acknowledged in separate meetings at the palace that the Saudi government needed to show accountability for the murder. Yet Mr. Pompeo declined to answer a question about how his demands square with the C.I.A.s conclusion that Prince Mohammed was behind the assassination.Middle East experts working in the State Department have concluded that the Saudis have not met the threshold of accountability yet.A Saudi court has begun trial proceedings for 11 suspects in the Khashoggi case, and prosecutors are seeking the death penalty for five of them. In October, the government said it had arrested 18 people, and it is unclear what has happened to the other seven.The Saudi government has also removed a few senior officials from their posts, including Mr. Qahtani, the close associate of the prince who directed the kingdoms social media efforts.When pressed by a reporter about Prince Mohammeds conduct, Mr. Pompeo ultimately said that Saudi Arabias leaders are going to act in their countrys interests.Thats their obligation, the same way mine is to act in Americas best interests, he said.Given the darkening views on Saudi Arabia in the West, it will be difficult for the Trump administration to avoid scrutiny of the relationship, and for Prince Mohammed to overhaul his image, said Hussein Ibish, a scholar at the Arab Gulf States Institute in Washington.Theres a narrative that a dictatorship is emerging where there was once a monarchy, he said. This is a very, very damaging narrative.Eric Schmitt contributed reporting from Washington.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Zolan Kanno-YoungsWASHINGTON  Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, said on Monday that cyberthreats against the United States were a national security crisis that she described as her top priority  not the situation for which President Trump last month declared a national emergency.On top of my list of threats, that many of you can guess, the word cyber is circled, highlighted and underlined, Ms. Nielsen said in a speech outlining her departments focus in the coming year. The cyberdomain is a target, a weapon and a threat vector all at the same time.Mr. Trump has called the increasing flow of immigrants to the southern border one of the most urgent national security issues threatening the United States. Last week, issuing his first veto against legislation that would have blocked him from diverting Defense Department funds to build a border wall, the president described a recent spike in migrants crossing the border as an invasion.The Department of Homeland Security oversees customs officers and immigration agents who are on the front lines of the Trump administrations campaign to close the border to illegal immigration.Ms. Nielsen did dedicate a portion of her speech on Monday to what she called a humanitarian and security catastrophe of Central American families traveling to the border. She also noted that the projected number of migrants who may be apprehended at the southern border this month was expected to rise to 100,000, up from 76,000 in February.But mentions of digital threats were dispersed throughout her approximately 35-minute address to an auditorium of various Department of Homeland Security officials.Among global jihadists and transnational criminals, Ms. Nielsen listed cyberthugs and hackers and resurgent nation-state rivals as an emerging threat to the United States. She asked two cybersecurity officials who helped safeguard the 2018 elections to stand for a round of applause.Ms. Nielsen also assailed President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and the Kremlin for a concerted effort to undermine our elections and our democratic process using cyberenabled means. And she said the average American citizen or company was no match for virtual threats from Russia, China, North Korea and Iran.I am more worried about the ability of bad guys to hijack our networks than their ability to hijack our flights, Ms. Nielsen said. I am concerned about them holding our infrastructure hostage, stealing our money and secrets, exploiting children online and even hacking our democracy.John Cohen, a former acting under secretary for intelligence during the Obama administration, said law enforcement could no longer look at the threats in the digital world and the physical world as separate issues. Extremist groups now circulate videos on the internet to inspire terrorist attacks, and drug traffickers are using the dark web  something Ms. Nielsen also highlighted in her speech.Mr. Cohen said he remained unclear on how Ms. Nielsen proposed combating cybersecurity threats.There is an incredible amount of talent at D.H.S., said Mr. Cohen, also a senior adviser at the agency during the George W. Bush administration. My concern is that talent and those capabilities are being underutilized, because in the eyes of many at the White House, the sole purpose for D.H.S. is to conduct its immigrant and border security activities.Ms. Nielsen said the department was focused on increasing collaboration with the private sector, citing a summit meeting held in New York last year for industry and government officials. She said she expected the cooperation between various homeland security agencies to improve when the department consolidates at a former mental hospital next month.She praised the departments work in defending the integrity of the 2018 midterm elections and said she was confident in her departments ability to secure the 2020 presidential vote. Ms. Nielsen also said homeland security would continue to pursue prosecutions against foreign entities that hack the American digital infrastructure.What worries me, though, is not what these threat actors have done, Ms. Nielsen said, but what they have the capability to do.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Jean Rutter and Marcus Payadue(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.) Good evening. Heres the latest.1. No deal. With the partial government shutdown now in its 12th day  and with Democrats taking control of the House on Thursday  President Trump invited congressional leaders from both parties to a gathering in the Situation Room billed as a border security briefing.The meeting yielded no agreement. It only served to highlight the gulf between the president, who has dug in on his demand for Congress to fund a border wall, his signature campaign promise, and Democrats, who have refused to do so.Earlier, Mr. Trump rejected a plan that Vice President Mike Pence privately floated to Democrats last month, saying $2.5 billion for border security  rather than the $5.6 billion that the president has requested  was insufficient. He also rejected a compromise that would pair money for a wall with legislation to protect young immigrants brought to the country illegally as children. Above, at a cabinet meeting._____2. Native Americans are among those hit hardest by the partial government shutdown, with tribes across the U.S. scrambling to make up for lost federal funding.Among the services curtailed: a food program that fed 90,000 people last year.Generations ago, tribes negotiated treaties with the U.S. government that guaranteed money for services like health care and education in exchange for huge swaths of territory. Above, at a New Years powwow in Sault Ste. Marie, Mich.The federal government owes us this, said the chairman of one tribe. We prepaid with millions of acres of land.Also, the Smithsonian Institutions museums, along with many other federally funded tourist attractions, are closing because of the government shutdown._____3. Savvy legislator. Prolific fund-raiser. Colleague both feared and admired.Nancy Pelosi is poised to reclaim her former title as speaker of the House.She will be the first lawmaker in more than half a century to hold the office twice, making her the highest-ranking and most powerful elected woman in American political history. Our video team takes a look inside her leadership playbook.Ms. Pelosi, above, is facing some self-imposed time constraints. To satisfy House Democrats who pressed for a younger generation of leaders, she has agreed to limit her term to four years. Some say that could weaken her, a notion she dismissed.Im used to, shall we say, enthusiasms from all elements of the party, she said. I can roll with that._____4. Women who worked for the Bernie Sanders presidential campaign in 2016 say complaints of sexism and mistreatment were not addressed.Discussions about sexual harassment, demeaning behavior and pay disparities in the campaign have circulated in recent weeks in emails, online comments and private discussions among former supporters.Now, as the Vermont senator tries to build support for a second run at the White House, his perceived failure to address this issue has damaged his progressive credentials, delegates and nearly a dozen former staff members told us in interviews over the last month. Above, at a rally in Ames, Iowa.The senators campaign committee said it had developed a new harassment policy and was reviewing pay disparity claims._____5. Apple cut its first-quarter revenue forecast, citing a steep drop in sales in China.In a letter to shareholders, the company said it expected revenue of about $84 billion in the quarter that ended Dec. 29, down from a previous estimate of $89 billion to $93 billion.The companys announcement added to concerns about the ability of U.S. tech giants to navigate an increasingly uncertain economy and a continuing trade war with China. Above, a retail store in Beijing.China has become Apples third-largest market in recent years, driven mostly by iPhone sales.Separately, Wall Street stocks opened sharply lower but recovered after a rise in oil prices lifted shares of energy producers. And Tesla reported record quarterly production and deliveries  but also announced a price cut that sent shares nearly 7 percent lower._____6. The Army is rolling out a new recruiting strategy. For decades, the Army has relied disproportionately on the South, where young people enlist at two to three times the rate of other regions.But after falling 6,500 soldiers short of its nationwide recruiting goal in 2018, the Army is planning a big push in 22 left-leaning cities, like Chicago, San Francisco and Seattle, places where relatively few recruits have signed up. Above, in Seattle.The Armys head of recruiting wants to frame enlistment as a patriotic opportunity for public service, travel and adventure. Come do your gap year in the Army, he said. (Figuratively speaking, that is: Enlistees commit to serve for two to six years.)_____7. President Xi Jinping urged unification with Taiwan and demanded greater progress in Beijings decades-long quest to win control of the disputed island.Mr. Xi gave Taiwan two options: He could use military force if the self-ruled territory grasped for independence, or he could offer a one country, two systems deal, similar to the framework used in Hong Kong. But the president didnt lay down a timetable for either path.Only 3 percent of Taiwans population favors immediate unification with China, according to a recent survey. Above, in Taipei, Taiwan.Separately, our New New World columnist takes a look at companies in China where thousands of low-wage workers help the government monitor and scrub content online._____8. California is feeling the effects of a marijuana glut.When the state legalized recreational marijuana a year ago, supporters predicted soaring sales and tax revenue. But instead, sales have fallen since 2017, when only medical marijuana was legal.The industry is hampered by disputes over regulations and taxes, and angry residents who dont want cannabis grown in their neighborhoods. Above, in Berkeley, Calif.At the same time, a black market continues to thrive. Californias surplus  equal to 13 times Colorados total annual production  is being smuggled eastward to other states where the wholesale price is much higher._____9. A new crop of animal film stars is emerging, our culture critic writes.They dont talk like humans. They dont shake hands or roll over. Instead they are captured somewhat naturalistically.The cat Towne, above, spends much of Can You Ever Forgive Me? gazing languidly from a couch. In Roma, a family dog barks incessantly. And in Widows, a fluffy white terrier named Olivia pants calmly as violent criminals creep around her.These recent pet performances raise the question: Are animals getting better at acting?_____10. Finally, does a matched pair of socks  your own or someone elses  give you joy?Marie Kondo, above, the Japanese tidying guru whose 2014 book, The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up, has sold over 8.5 million copies sold in over 40 languages, now has a reality TV show.Have a neat evening.Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And dont miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byHis presidency hasnt been the boon for gun-rights supporters that they might have hoped.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.Last Valentines Day, a year ago this Thursday, classes were wrapping up at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School when a former student with a semiautomatic rifle murdered 17 people and wounded 17 others. It so happens that this Wednesday, the House Judiciary Committee will move to advance legislation requiring background checks on all firearm sales. The killer in the Parkland, Fla., school massacre passed such a check, but this measure would close a loophole exploited by other killers that exempts unlicensed gun sellers from conducting background checks. Support for such a change is overwhelmingly popular, even among gun owners. The bill has an excellent chance of passing the Democrat-led House. Its prospects in the Senate, controlled by the Republican majority leader, Mitch McConnell, are bleak.Even so, the very emergence of this bill is a reminder of how the gun debate has shifted since President Trump took office  and not in a direction that Second Amendment crusaders might have hoped. Politically, financially and legally, the gun-rights cause and, more specifically, the lobbying juggernaut that is the National Rifle Association have not fared well in the Trump era. If this trend continues  or accelerates  it could wind up being a rare silver lining to Mr. Trumps presidency.Some of the challenges facing the gun lobby are not specific to Mr. Trump. A gun-loving president always makes a less effective boogeyman than a gun-skeptical one. In that way, President Barack Obama was good for the gun-rights cause  and it was perhaps inevitable that, having labored to get Mr. Trump elected, the N.R.A.s fund-raising would taper off. In 2017, the groups revenues dropped by $55 million, or 15 percent, over its 2016 haul, driven largely by a decline in member dues. Combined with its heavy spending in the 2016 campaign, the group now finds itself in a deep financial hole, in debt to the tune of $31.8 million. The N.R.A. has suffered Trump-specific turmoil as well. As part of the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election, the special counsel, Robert Mueller, has been exploring possible ties between the N.R.A. and Russia. Among Mr. Muellers top concerns is reportedly whether Russian interests funneled money to the Trump campaign via the N.R.A.  and, if so, to what degree the groups leaders may have known what was happening.In addition to Mr. Muellers interest in the N.R.A., there have been multiple congressional inquiries into a possible love triangle among the gun group, Team Trump and Russia. With Democrats now in charge of the House, expect the scrutiny to get more intense. Representative Adam Schiff, the new head of the Intelligence Committee, has said that under Republican leadership the committee did not delve deeply enough into the muck. We were really not able to determine how the Russians used the N.R.A. as a back channel or look into allegations that the Russians may have funneled money through the N.R.A. to influence the election, Mr. Schiff recently told The Times. Those issues remain of deep interest to us.Beyond any legal missteps that may be uncovered, revelations that the N.R.A. was snuggling up to Russian officials and intimates of President Vladimir Putin already have proved a public-relations nightmare. Particularly embarrassing is the bizarre case of Maria Butina, the Russian graduate student who pleaded guilty in December to working as a foreign agent and who conspired to infiltrate the N.R.A. and the Republican Party in order to help Russia influence American politics.While the Russia-N.R.A. bonds were years in the making, Americans can thank Mr. Trump for the intense spotlight on this unwholesome relationship.Last year, for the first time in nearly two decades, polling indicated that more Americans held a negative view than a positive view of the N.R.A. There has also been an upswing in support for stricter gun laws.Despite the will of the people, the Republican-controlled Congress clung to its do-nothing approach after the Parkland shooting and others like it. At the state level, however, there has been action. The private sector also got involved. Dicks Sporting Goods and Walmart both halted the sale of assault-style weapons in their stores, along with the sale of guns and ammunition to customers under age 21. Companies ranging from MetLife to Delta to Alamo Rent A Car did away with discounts for N.R.A. members.The political world has sensed this shift in the wind. Of late, more lawmakers have seemed willing to boast about their poor ratings by the gun lobby. The 2018 elections were the first in which spending for gun-safety advertising exceeded that for guns-rights ads, and candidates backed by gun-safety groups enjoyed important victories.Not all of the change can be directly attributable to Mr. Trump, of course. But, much as womens frustration over his presidency helped drive the #MeToo movement, his administration has energized gun-safety advocates, who have put the gun lobby and its cause on the defensive.This wont yield an imminent revolution on regulating firearms, especially within the overly cautious halls of Congress. The N.R.A. remains a political powerhouse, an increasingly conservative Republican Party still controls the White House and the Senate, and guns remain a centerpiece of the culture war.But with a topic this polarizing, small steps deserve to be applauded  and encouraged. When lawmakers held a hearing on the background-check bill last week, it was the first hearing in eight years to broach the subject of gun violence.With a little luck and some political spine, more such actions will follow. The victims and survivors of Parkland, and of the 339 other mass shootings in 2018 alone, deserve more than pious sentiment and political cowardice.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe case for crisis seems compelling  but I said that in 2011, too.By Paul KrugmanOpinion ColumnistThe other day I issued a warning about the Chinese economy. It is, I wrote, emerging as a danger spot in a world economy that really, really doesnt need this right now.Unfortunately, the other day was more than 6 years ago. And its not just me. Many people have been predicting a China crisis for a long time, and it has kept on not happening.But now China seems to be stumbling again. Is this the moment when all the prophecies of big trouble in big China finally come true? Honestly, I have no idea.On one side, Chinas problems are real. On the other, the Chinese government  hindered neither by rigid ideology nor by anything resembling a democratic political process  has repeatedly shown its ability and willingness to do whatever it takes to prop up its economy. Its really anyones guess whether this time will be different, or whether Xi-who-must-be-obeyed can pull out another recovery.But maybe this is another example of Dornbuschs Law, named after my old teacher Rudi Dornbusch: The crisis takes a much longer time coming than you think, and then it happens much faster than you would have thought. So it seems useful to summarize why people have been worried about China, and why Chinas troubles are a problem for the rest of the world.The fundamental problem with the Chinese economy is that its highly unbalanced: It has extremely high levels of investment, seemingly without enough domestic consumption to justify that investment. You might be tempted to say this doesnt matter, that China can just export its surplus production to other countries. But while there was a period from the mid-2000s to the early 2010s when China ran huge trade surpluses, those days are past.Figure 1 shows Chinese investment (left scale) and its current account balance (a broad measure of the trade balance, right scale), both as percentages of GDP. That investment number is huge by anyones standards; its hard to see how companies can avoid running into strongly diminishing returns.Its true that very high investment can be sustained for a long time in a rapidly growing economy (the so-called accelerator effect.) And China has indeed achieved incredible growth. But the potential for future growth is falling, for a couple of reasons. One is that as Chinese technology converges on that of advanced countries, the room for rapid improvement through borrowing declines. The other is that Chinas one-child policy has produced demography that looks a lot like Europe or Japan. Figure 2 shows Chinas working-age population, which has stopped growing.So China really cant keep investing 40-plus percent of GDP. It needs to shift over to higher consumption, which it could do by returning more profits from state-owned enterprises to the public, strengthening the social safety net, and so on. But it keeps not doing that.Instead, the Chinese government has been piling on loans to businesses and state-owned enterprises, pushing the SOEs to spend more, and so on. Basically it has kept investment going despite low returns. Yet this process has to have some limits  and when it hits the (great) wall, its hard to see how consumption can rise fast enough to take up the slack.However, if this sounds like a compelling case, bear in mind that its the same case I and others made in 2011. So apply appropriate skepticism.What are the global consequences if China does get into trouble? The important thing to realize here is that China no longer runs huge trade surpluses with the world as a whole (the U.S. bilateral deficit is exceptional and deceptive.) And as a result China has become a major market. Figure 3 shows Chinas imports from other countries as a percentage of world GDP; theyve gotten quite big. For another perspective, in 2017 Chinese imports were $2.2 trillion, compared with $2.9 trillion for the US; theyre almost as much of a locomotive for the world economy as we are.What this means is that a Chinese stumble would hit the world economy pretty hard, with special damage to commodity exporters (including U.S. farmers).In other words, there are scary things out there besides Trump and Brexit.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.  @PaulKrugman Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Alexander BurnsMASON CITY, Iowa  Senator Cory Booker glided into the state first, offering himself as a herald of peace in a northern Iowa church that advertised radical hospitality on its marquee. As a rainbow cracked the frozen sky outside, Mr. Booker spoke of restoring grace and decency and erasing the lines that people think divide us  racial lines, religious lines, geographic lines.Senator Elizabeth Warren arrived soon after, still thrumming with the energy of a weekend announcement speech in Lawrence, Mass. Having vowed there to fight my heart out against government corruption and corporate power, Ms. Warren roused the crowd in Cedar Rapids on Sunday not with bounteous optimism but a call to arms.This is the time, she said, to take on the fight.In the space of a weekend, the two Democrats mapped the philosophical and temperamental fork their party must navigate as it challenges President Trump. Down one path, Mr. Bookers, lies a mission of healing and hope, with a campaign to bind up social wounds that have deepened in the Trump era. The other path, Ms. Warrens, promises combat and more combat  a crusade not just to defeat Mr. Trump but to demolish the architecture of his government.As much as any disputation over policy, this gulf defines the Democratic field, separating candidates of disparate backgrounds and ideologies into two loose groups: fighters and healers.And the 2020 primary, Democratic leaders say, could hinge on whether their voters are more determined to reunite a divided country or to crush Mr. Trump and his party.[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]Bonnie Campbell, a Democrat who served as Iowas attorney general, said Ms. Warren of Massachusetts and Mr. Booker of New Jersey vividly captured the two approaches. Praising Ms. Warren for her forceful economic critique and Mr. Booker for his forward-looking pragmatism, Ms. Campbell said there was thirst for both outlooks among Democrats  and sometimes within individual Democrats like herself.Honestly, I think theres a bit of schizophrenia on what our message should be, Ms. Campbell said. You can be angry and passionate about whats happened, and also recognize that the task ahead of us is to bring the country together. Either one of those messages will carry the day, or theyll be blended together.A range of blends is already available in the Democratic primary, with Mr. Booker and Ms. Warren representing the purest archetypes and their competitors arrayed on a spectrum between them. Senators Kamala Harris of California and Kirsten Gillibrand of New York entered the race last month on footing closer to Ms. Warrens, with differing policy agendas but overlapping political vocabulary. Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, a fiery populist, is expected to join the fray soon, and perhaps Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio.Mr. Bookers rhetorical space has been less crowded so far, but several Democrats exploring the 2020 race have been wielding similar themes. Joseph R. Biden Jr., the former vice president, and Michael R. Bloomberg, the former New York City mayor, have both extolled bipartisanship. Beto ORourke, the former Texas Senate candidate, told Oprah Winfrey last week that he was preoccupied with uniting a deeply divided country.[Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.]It is perhaps not an accident that the most confident Democratic tribunes of good feeling are all men, while the partys sternest warriors are mainly women. In a contest for the presidency, a position traditionally viewed in martial terms, it may be easier for a man of Mr. Bidens backslapping swagger or Mr. Bookers athletic stature to show tenderness or vulnerability without fear of appearing weak.And it was with enthusiastic physicality, and regular references to having played high school and college football, that Mr. Booker preached love and understanding. He clasped his chest and his face at moments of emotion, usually stirring murmurs of appreciation and sympathy; in one case, he wrapped his arm around a voter for a midspeech selfie. While Mr. Booker said he was ready to spar with Mr. Trump, stating matter-of-factly that there is nobody in this race tougher than me, his overarching theme was about reconciliation.At an airy adult learning center in Waterloo, Mr. Booker insisted that the capacity to conquer all manner of hardships was within human reach  a contrast with Ms. Warren and other populists, who tend to describe ordinary people being stripped of power by big institutions.The most common way people give up their power, Mr. Booker said, is not realizing that they have it.Forces of darkness appeared in Mr. Bookers political narrative  the country, he said, has a cancer on our soul  but there were few villains. Where malignant people intruded, Mr. Booker leavened their presence with humor: Strom Thurmond, the South Carolina senator who embodied virulent racism, became the subject of a laughter-inducing vocal impression. Describing how a racist white real estate agent directed a dog to attack his father, Mr. Booker added a punch line: Each time his father told the story, he joked, that dog got bigger!At times, Mr. Bookers calls for conciliation had an ideological subtext. He repeatedly detailed distinctions with the Democratic left, calling on progressives to reclaim the fiscally responsible label and denouncing corporate power selectively, focusing chiefly on consolidation in the agricultural sector.Patti Downs, who went to hear Mr. Booker speak in Waterloo, said she believed he had the leadership abilities to be a good president. Ms. Downs said she was also eyeing Mr. Biden but already admired Mr. Booker for his bipartisan instincts and his attention to everyday problems, like wages and health care, rather than more abstract debates.We need more of that, and I think he might be the person to do it, said Ms. Downs, a retiree who used to run a health care clinic. I think maybe he can bring about the changes of civility, and bring politics down from that lofty place that most of us have no way to relate to.If Mr. Bookers remarks projected the jaunty optimism of a marching band  his announcement video literally featured one  Ms. Warrens echoed with cannon fire. In a hall at the Veterans Memorial Building in Cedar Rapids and during an afternoon rally at the University of Iowa, she drew roars of applause when pledging to attack corruption head-on and wrangle power from a set of named foes: drug companies, oil companies, student loan companies, private prison companies, gun companies and the National Rifle Association.All, Ms. Warren declared, should be tamed through legislation and regulation.Rules matter, she said, and thats why Im in this fight.Ms. Warren punctuated her rhetoric with a different set of gestures, pumping a tight fist for emphasis or slicing the air with an open palm; in Cedar Rapids, she closed by raising both hands overhead like a boxer soaking in applause.Unlike Mr. Booker, Ms. Warren taunted Mr. Trump, urging Democrats not to build their 2020 message around him because he might not be president that long. In fact, she said, he might not even be a free person.On Sunday, Ms. Warren made only a glancing reference to unity, cautioning a voter who raised the idea of impeaching the president that the process would divide Americans and that, if it came to that, Democrats must help pull this country together.Cindy Garlock, a leader with the liberal activist group Indivisible Iowa who watched Ms. Warren on Sunday morning, said she had not picked a favorite but believed that Ms. Warren had a winning message. Ms. Garlock said she had also seen Mr. Booker during his visit but found Ms. Warrens presentation  dotted with plans to raise taxes on the wealthy and crack down on pharmaceutical and student-loan companies  more convincing.She is a fighter, but I think that will also unite the country, if were fighting for the right purpose, Ms. Garlock said. Her purpose is to help regular people who are going to work every day, trying to pay their bills, which is the majority of this country.Both approaches have a rich history in Democratic politics, nationally and in Iowa  a state that has helped elevate conciliators like Jimmy Carter and Barack Obama to the presidency, while for decades sending prairie populists like Tom Harkin to Congress.Mr. Booker shares a clear political lineage with Mr. Obama, who captured the Iowa caucuses in 2008 with a message of national unity. But the party has also shifted left since then, and has grown more suspicious of Republicans who harried Mr. Obama and elected Mr. Trump. In 2016, Mr. Sanders nearly upset Hillary Clinton in Iowa as a populist insurgent.Mr. Trumps slashing style may also weigh on primary voters and caucusgoers, Democrats say, guaranteeing that even a kindhearted nominee would face a blizzard of personal attacks and crude trash-talking.Still, Representative Dave Loebsack, a veteran Democrat whose district covers Iowas southeastern quadrant, said he believed that even partisan Iowans yearned for political reconciliation. Though he is neutral in the race, Mr. Loebsack predicted that Mr. Bookers uplifting narrative would resonate.I think we have to be careful with anger and outrage and alienation because that can also feed into the worst instincts of folks, Mr. Loebsack said, adding of Mr. Booker: I love his message of love and redemption and all the rest.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported bylensFabio Bucciarelli was named Photographer of the Year and Jessica Phelps won Newspaper Photographer of the Year. The New York Times was cited for excellence in photo editing.By James EstrinFabio Bucciarelli was named Photographer of the Year in the 76th Pictures of the Year International competition for a portfolio featuring his coverage of Gaza and the United States-Mexico border published by Yahoo News. Jessica Phelps was named Newspaper Photographer of the Year for her work at The Newark Advocate, her hometown newspaper in central Ohio. The Multimedia Photographer of the Year award went to Emily Kassie of the Marshall Project.The New York Times received the Angus McDougall Overall Excellence in Editing award from POYi, which is a program of the Missouri School of Journalism. Jeffrey Furticella, a Times metro photo editor, was named Newspaper Visual Editor of the Year, while Morrigan McCarthy of The Timess national desk received an Award of Excellence in that category. Jonah Kessel of The Times was a finalist for Multimedia Photographer of the Year.It is a particularly great honor to receive the Angus McDougall award since, more than any other honor, it recognizes the value of teamwork and the many talented editors and photographers who contribute to our visual report, said Meaghan Looram, The Timess director of photography. I believe our portfolio this year highlighted the broad variety of photography that our staff and freelance contributors are creating, and the versatility and ingenuity of our photo editors and our print and digital design colleagues who are devoted to presenting our visual journalism to our readers in the most powerful formats for every medium. Ms. Phelps grew up in a mostly rural and conservative area outside of Newark, Ohio. From an early age she wanted nothing more than to leave: After studying photography at the Columbus College of Art and Design, she spent two years living on a goat farm in Italy, then spent time in Chile, Nicaragua and Costa Rica. After turning her attention to photojournalism  and running out of money  she made her way back home. Now at The Advocate for six years, she has learned to appreciate her hometown.I understand the supportive nature of my community and that everyone is there for everyone else when somebody is in need, she said. I came back to it with both the eyes of an outsider and somebody who grew up there. I now understand that people are just living their lives doing the best they can and that were all human.Her winning portfolio included a long-term project on an Iraqi family that was resettled in Ohio after the father had worked as a translator for the United States military. The story, which followed their journey raising their three children as Americans but with an appreciation of their Iraqi heritage, also took first place in the Daily Life Picture Story category.Mr. Bucciarellis winning portfolio included a photo essay on Hondurans fleeing violence in their country and waiting in Tijuana, Mexico, as they applied for United States asylum, as well as another story in which he followed a single family across the border. He also had a story on the protests in Gaza along the border with Israel.Mr. Bucciarelli also received first place for News Picture Story for his images on the United States border wall with Mexico, and he tied with Nicole Tung for a second place in the same category for his Gaza story.Mr. Bucciarelli, a freelance photographer from Turin, Italy, has devoted most of the last eight years to covering conflict and received the Robert Capa Gold Medal award from the Overseas Press Club of America in 2013 for his images from Syria. But what gratifies him most, he said, is ensuring that uncomfortable truths are not ignored.Thats better than the prize, because people dont want to see what is happening, he said. If you wake up in the morning to get a cup of coffee and you see a terrible picture about a conflict going on, you probably think a little more about that  and your coffee doesnt taste so good.The New York Timess visual investigations team was awarded first place in the Documentary Project of the Year category for a selection of videos titled Visual Forensics, for which Mark Scheffler was the executive producer and Malachy Browne was the senior producer. This award is a reflection of The Timess commitment to investing in innovative storytelling  the kind that has allowed the video unit to build an industry-leading open-source investigative team, said Nancy Gauss, The Timess executive director for video. Time after time, this team set the record straight, exposed government deceit and set a standard for transparent and explanatory storytelling. This is a new form of investigative journalism that combines traditional reporting with the forensic analysis of videos, photos and satellite images, and 3-D crime scene reconstructions. The teams commitment to uncovering the truth through deeply reported visual stories is something we are all really proud of.In the Documentary Journalism category of the multimedia division, ProPublica won first place for Unprotected, produced and directed by Nadia Sussman and Kathleen Flynn with the reporter Finlay Young. The New York Times took second place for the Its an Act of Murder: How Europe Outsources Suffering as Migrants Drown.National Geographic swept all three places in both the Magazine/Media Visual Editing award and the Magazine/Media Visual Editor of the Year award, with Kurt Muchler winning both categories.Mr. Furticella of The Times also received first in the Newspaper Visual Editing category.April Saul took first in General News for an image of a shooting victim, and Tyler Hicks, a Times staff photographer, took second for a photograph of Amal Hussain, a malnourished 7-year-old Yemeni girl who later died. Stuart Palley of The Los Angeles Times won first place in Spot News, and Demetrius Freeman, a freelance photographer for The New York Times, received first in the Daily Life category.Antonio Faccilongo of Getty Images Reportage won the World Understanding award, and Adrees Latif of Reuters took first in the Community Awareness award.Matt Gade of The Daily Republic in Mitchell, S.D., was named Sports Photographer of the Year. In Sports Action, Bernat Armangue of The Associated Press took first.Jalal Shamsazaran won the Environmental Vision award, and Lynn Johnson of National Geographic took first in Science and Natural History Picture Story. Nanna Kreutzmann took first in Science and Natural History Singles, and Josh Haner of The Times was third.Matthew Sedacca contributed reporting. Follow @nytimesphoto and @JamesEstrin on Twitter. You can also find us on Facebook and Instagram.James Estrin, the co-editor of Lens, joined The Times as a photographer in 1992 after years of freelancing for the newspaper and hundreds of other publications.  @JamesEstrin Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Hiroko Masuike(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.) Good evening. Heres the latest.1. Our team of Washington reporters uncovered a secretive layer of President Trumps public war on the investigations encircling him, particularly that of the special counsel, Robert Mueller.They interviewed dozens of current and former government officials and others close to Mr. Trump and reviewed confidential White House documents, finding numerous unreported episodes of pressure and intimidation over the last two years that may expose him to accusations of obstruction of justice.Their published report, at 4,500 words, is our most-read article today.Separately, House Democrats are investigating an administration effort to bring nuclear power plants to Saudi Arabia despite repeated warnings that potential conflicts of interest around the plan could put U.S. security at risk._____2. Sixteen states have banded together to challenge President Trumps declaration of a national emergency at the border, setting up a constitutional clash over the scope of presidential emergency powers.Their lawsuit argues that the president doesnt have the power to divert federal funds to build his promised border wall because Congress controls spending. House Democrats are also gearing up to confront the president. Above, workers reinforcing a section of the border fence near Tijuana, Mexico.Our limited-run weekly newsletter, Crossing the Border, offers a deeper understanding of an issue that seems to have taken over the U.S. political agenda._____3. Bernie Sanders makes 12.The Vermont senator announced his 2020 presidential campaign, a bid that will test whether he can retain the anti-establishment appeal he enjoyed with liberal voters in 2016. A self-styled democratic socialist, Mr. Sanders believes his policy ideas now have support from many more Americans, including Medicare for all, a $15 minimum wage and tuition-free public colleges. Above, Mr. Sanders at the Iowa State Homecoming Parade in October.Heres the full Democratic field (so far)._____4. Egyptian officials detained a veteran Times correspondent and forced him back to London without explanation, in an escalation of a severe crackdown against the news media under President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi.In another case, the photojournalist pictured above, Mahmoud Abou Zeid, was due to be released in September after five years in prison but remains in detention.The Times correspondent, David Kirkpatrick, a former Cairo bureau chief, was denied entry at the Cairo airport and held without food or water for seven hours. His phone was confiscated. Eventually, he was escorted on a plane back to London, where his passport was finally returned.Separately, in a domestic move regarding First Amendment rights, Justice Clarence Thomas called for reconsideration of the Supreme Courts landmark 1964 libel ruling in New York Times v. Sullivan._____5. American teachers have mounted the most sustained educator protest movement in decades  and it doesnt show any signs of stopping.Teachers walked out of classrooms again in West Virginia on Tuesday, above, helping to kill a bill that would have allowed tax dollars to pay for private school tuition and established charter schools in the state for the first time. Those in Oakland, Calif., plan a strike for Thursday.We look at the resilience of a movement that has grown from demanding higher wages and benefits for educators to a broader push for school reform._____6. The Roman Catholic Church confirmed that it has general guidelines for what to do when clerics break celibacy vows and end up fathering children, a growing issue that strikes at the heart of the Vaticans culture of secrecy.It appears to be the first admission that such a practice existed. The children are often a result of affairs, though some are the product of rape or abuse. Above, Vincent Doyle, the son of a priest.Some of these children are among those descending on Rome to press their cause during the Vaticans unprecedented meeting this week on the child sexual abuse crisis.Separately, Southern Baptists announced plans to address sexual abuse in the wake of an investigation by The Houston Chronicle and The San Antonio Express-News. The reporting revealed that nearly 400 Southern Baptist leaders had been accused of sexual misconduct or crimes against more than 700 victims since 1998._____7. What if stemming the tide of misinformation on YouTube means punishing some of its biggest stars?Its a question vexing the platform as it tries to rein in bad actors with a new recommendation algorithm. Instead of aiming to maximize the amount of time users spend on the site  rewarding those who traded in viral stunts and baseless rumor-mongering  the company says it is trying to reduce the spread of borderline content and content that could misinform users in harmful ways.And harmful, our tech and culture columnist notes, is a circular notion: A conspiracy theory is harmful if it results in harm  at which point its often too late for platforms to act._____8. Sweatpants are a sign of defeat.That was the witty, highly recognizable Karl Lagerfeld, the most prolific designer of the 20th and 21st centuries. He died in Paris at the age of 85, after a career that reshaped the fashion industry.As the creative director at Chanel since 1983 and Fendi since 1965, Mr. Lagerfeld, above in 2002, achieved an unparalleled level of fame. He also created a new kind of designer: a shape-shifter, reinventing heritage brands with dollops of pop culture, our chief fashion critic writes in his obituary.Virginie Viard, the creative studio director at Chanel, will take the helm of the fashion house._____9. Our Opinion section has been looking at how the events of 1919 shaped the modern era.Consider jazz: A century ago, many in the U.S. considered it no more than a novelty. But then the famed Harlem Hellfighters 369th Infantry regiment marched through Manhattan during celebrations over the end of World War I. All ears were on its band, above.Led by Lt. James Reese Europe, an immensely successful and well-known African-American musician, the band  and its renown abroad  surfaced in nearly every account of the parade, writes David Sager, a research assistant at the Library of Congress, jazz historian and jazz trombonist.Between that and a young cornetist named Louis Armstrong, he argues, 1919 was the year jazz came into its own._____10. Finally, we end with a touch of wanderlust.For his second destination in a yearlong journey, our 52 Places Traveler landed on the Pacific Coast of Panama and found himself daydreaming about being swallowed up by the little town of Santa Catalina. (He got us dreaming, too.)I could find a new rhythm, dictated by when the waves were good for surfing and the visibility was good for diving, he writes, in a place where even the Wi-Fi takes things slow, restaurant menus depend on whats been caught that day and everything is just quieter.Have an imaginative night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And dont miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Robert PearWASHINGTON  When a pharmaceutical company sold its patent rights for a blockbuster drug to an Indian tribe 16 months ago, stymied competitors and consumer groups condemned the move as a flagrant abuse of the patent system.This month, the company, Allergan, doubled down, asking the Supreme Court to rule that the Saint Regis Mohawk Tribe can use its sovereign immunity to fend off challenges by makers of low-cost generic copies of the best-selling prescription eyedrops, Restasis.Congress is gearing up for what promises to be a yearlong investigation of drug prices, with House and Senate committees planning to hold hearings on Tuesday. The deal between Allergan and the Saint Regis Mohawks promises to be front and center when lawmakers in both parties examine the use of patents to delay competition and keep prices high.Restasis, a treatment of chronic dry eye disease, had sales of nearly $1.5 billion in 2017  Allergans best seller after Botox.In September 2017, Allergan transferred patents for the eye drug to the tribe in upstate New York near the Canadian border. Allergan paid the tribe $13.75 million up front and agreed to pay up to $15 million a year in royalties as long as the patents remained valid. At the same time, the tribe gave Allergan the sole and exclusive right to manufacture and market the drug in the United States for uses approved by the Food and Drug Administration.The company says it is trying to protect its intellectual property. The tribe says it needs the money to provide health, education, welfare, housing and other services for its members.But Michael A. Carrier, a law professor at Rutgers University and an expert on pharmaceutical patents, said, This has nothing to do with the purpose of tribal immunity and everything to do with evading the patent system.Drug companies should not be able to use this shell game of transferring patents to Native American tribes just so they can escape review at the patent office, Mr. Carrier said.Generic drug companies, eager to sell low-cost copies of Restasis, have challenged the validity of the patents.And so far, the tribe has struck out in its efforts to use sovereign immunity as a shield for the patents.Judge William C. Bryson of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit said he had serious concerns about the legitimacy of the tactic that Allergan and the tribe have employed.The essence of the matter is this, he said, Allergan purports to have sold the patents to the tribe, but in reality it is trying to rent the tribes sovereign immunity to protect the patents and forestall competition. He found that four of the Restasis patents were invalid.Restasis sells in pharmacies for an average cash price of about $657 for a months supply, according to the drug price website GoodRx.The Trump administration, siding with the generic drug companies, said the evident purpose of Allergans deal with the tribe was to allow Allergan to retain and enforce its patents.Allergan is still the effective owner of the patents, for which the tribe paid nothing, the Justice Department said. In no real-world sense do these patents belong to the Saint Regis Mohawk Tribe.Allergan and the tribe are now asking the Supreme Court to rule that the tribe can assert sovereign immunity in proceedings at the Patent and Trademark Office, and the move has attracted attention in Congress.Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas, said he had drafted a bill to prevent Indian tribes from using sovereign immunity to block the review of patents by federal courts and the patent office.By transferring the patents to a tribe that had no part in the development of the drug, Allergan attempted to purchase sovereign immunity to rip off consumers, Mr. Cotton said. Allergans transfer of the Restasis patents to the Mohawk tribe was a sham.Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York and the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, has described Allergans deal as a cynical ploy to shield its patents on a lucrative drug from review at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.In 2011, Congress created a special procedure under which an independent arm of the patent office  the Patent Trial and Appeal Board  can cancel patents if it finds that they were granted in error. Brand-name drug companies say these proceedings are often stacked against them and their patents.Allergan is not the only company facing criticism on Capitol Hill.In a Twitter post this past week, Representative Ro Khanna, Democrat of California, singled out AbbVie: They filed 247 patents for Humira, a single drug for arthritis. They received over 132 patents for that drug and are blocking competition for 39 years. They have increased prices 144% since 2012. This is a racket!Jillian Griffin, a spokeswoman for AbbVie, declined to comment about Mr. Khannas criticism. Global sales of Humira totaled $19.9 billion last year, the company reported on Friday.A Republican, Senator Susan Collins of Maine, the chairwoman of the Special Committee on Aging, said some drug makers were trying to stave off competitors by surrounding their products with a web of overlapping patents  a patent thicket.Consumer advocates, insurers and generic drug makers joined together this month in a new group, the Coalition Against Patent Abuse, to expose the ways in which brand-name drug companies try to extend their government-granted monopolies.Representative Frank Pallone Jr., Democrat of New Jersey and the chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, endorsed the effort, saying, Brand-name companies take actions that make it difficult for generics to enter the market.The tribe defended its novel arrangement with Allergan. While the tribe has a casino on its reservation, it said it could not depend solely on casino revenues to address the communitys chronically unmet needs.The tribe tried to block review of the Restasis patents by citing its sovereign immunity, but the patent appeal board rejected this argument, as did the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit.The Supreme Court appears to be its last chance, at least for now.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byDont mind that op-ed from last week.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of David Leonhardts newsletter. You can sign up here to receive it each weekday.Congressional Republicans offered up two conflicting storylines yesterday, and its worth keeping both in mind.1) Multiple senators hypocritically supported President Trumps emergency declaration for a border wall.Thom Tillis of North Carolina was the most blatant. Two weeks ago, he opposed the Trump move as an unacceptable power grab, writing in a Washington Post op-ed: There is no intellectual honesty in now turning around and arguing that theres an imaginary asterisk attached to executive overreach  that its acceptable for my party but not thy party.[Listen to The Argument podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]As recently as Wednesday, his staff sent nasty emails of denial to Aaron Blake of The Post when Blake described Tillis as turning wobbly.Yesterday, however, Tillis caved. He did so after conservatives began talking about supporting a primary challenge to him in 2020 if he voted against Trump. This is Trumps party, Rachel Bitecofer of Christopher Newport University notes.Of the seven Republican senators facing competitive races next year, six voted with Trump yesterday. They are evidently more scared of losing a primary than of losing a general election, as Jonathan Bernstein of Bloomberg Opinion points out.Cory Gardner of Colorado was another Republican who supported the emergency declaration yesterday. The Denver Posts editorial board, which had backed Gardner in his 2014 campaign, responded with: Our endorsement of Cory Gardner was a mistake.2) And yet Trump is a weak president.As nervous as congressional Republicans may be about primary challenges, they also keep showing that their support of Trump is almost purely self-interested  and not very deep. Even with the hypocritical support, 12 Republicans voted against Trumps declaration, allowing the measure to pass 59-41 and presumably forcing him to issue a humiliating veto. The vote, The Times editorial board writes, is a big deal. In practical terms, it could fortify the multiple lawsuits pending against Mr. Trumps absurd declaration, a faux emergency so nakedly political that even he admitted it was unnecessary.Not long before the Senate vote, the House yesterday passed a resolution  in a 420-to-0 shutout  demanding that the Justice Department release the Mueller report. The combination of the two votes was a remarkable rebuke. Yes, congressional Republicans are doing far less than they should to stand up to Trump. Many of them, like Tillis, have made themselves look foolish in the process. But its also the case that Trump receives less support from his own party than any other president in recent history.His presidency, as Bloombergs Bernstein has written, is entering a dangerous phase for him.If you are not a subscriber to this newsletter, you can subscribe here. You can also join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt  Facebook Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Mark Landler and Simon RomeroEL PASO  President Trump came to this bustling border city on Monday to rally support for his wall with Mexico. But he was met by El Pasos favorite son, Beto ORourke, who denounced Mr. Trumps claim that walls reduce violent crime and led the citys residents in his own boisterous show of opposition.The dueling rallies, just across the Rio Grande from Mexico, offered a vivid snapshot of the national debate over immigration, as well as a tantalizing early glimpse of the rivalry between Mr. Trump and Mr. ORourke, the former Texas congressman who is now considering a challenge to the president in 2020.As he mulls a run for the Democratic presidential nomination, Mr. ORourke has seized on immigration as a defining issue. With a flair for political theater that even Mr. Trump took note of, Mr. ORourke addressed a crowd less than a mile from the El Paso County Coliseum, where the president spoke to thousands of cheering supporters.We are not safe because of walls but in spite of walls, Mr. ORourke said, speaking to supporters within earshot of Mr. Trumps rally. We have so much to give, so much to show the rest of the country.Inside the arena, Mr. Trump was flanked by banners that said, Finish the Wall, and he faced a sea of red and blue signs urging him to Build the Wall.We need the wall, and it has to be built, Mr. Trump said, adding, Today we started building the big beautiful wall right on the Rio Grande.Mr. Trumps rally, his first since an acrimonious debate over funding of the wall shut down the government, came as negotiators in Washington appeared to reach a deal, potentially averting another shutdown. The president said he was told about the agreement just before taking the stage.We probably have some good news, Mr. Trump said, almost grudgingly, before adding, I dont even want to hear about it.In an interview with Laura Ingraham of Fox News that aired at the end of the rally, Mr. Trump seemed more concerned with talking about the number of supporters in the crowd on Monday night than about an update on negotiations with Congress.The president said he had had the option of receiving a briefing on the negotiations or going on camera.It was between the deal and you, and I had to choose you, Mr. Trump said. Theyre talking, and well see what happens.The presidents choice of El Paso to make his argument was curious on several grounds. Violent crime actually declined for years in this vibrant immigrant city across the river from Ciudad Jurez, Mexico, before the Army Corps of Engineers began building a fence in 2008. It rose during the two years before and after the barrier was constructed.[Sign up for Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet.]A Democratic stronghold in a mostly Republican state, El Paso has long been one of the safer cities of its size in the United States  a trend that local law enforcement officials attribute to the residents and community policing, not to the border fence.Still, if Mr. Trump wanted to force the debate with Democrats, he could hardly have chosen a better place. The presence of Mr. ORourke, who represented the city in Congress before he gave up his House seat to run unsuccessfully for the Senate, guaranteed the president the kind of confrontation he relishes, even if the two men did not come face to face.Mr. Trump lost little time in ridiculing Mr. ORourke, describing him as a young man whos got very little going for himself, except hes got a good first name.Hes supposed to win in order to run, the president added. Beto was defeated.Mr. Trumps discursive style delighted his crowd, though protesters heckled him more frequently than at other rallies since he became president. After one protester was escorted out of the arena to a chorus of boos from the crowd, the president asked, Is there any place thats more fun to be than a Trump rally?Mr. Trump has insisted that El Paso was an example of why a wall is necessary.Walls work, he said, repeating his assertion that the crime rate went down in El Paso after the border wall was built. Thanks to a border wall with Mexico, he said, El Paso is one of Americas safest cities.Mr. ORourke debunked that claim on Friday in a lengthy post on the website Medium, in which he also tried to set out an alternative blueprint for overhauling the nations immigration laws. El Pasos success, he said, repudiated Mr. Trumps call for a border wall.He will promise a wall and will repeat his lies about the dangers that immigrants pose, Mr. ORourke said of the president.Mr. ORourke has spotlighted his heavily Latino hometown on Facebook and on other social media sites as an example of what works in immigration policy.A short walk from the coliseum, protesters gathered to march in a show of dissent against the president. Many held signs criticizing Mr. Trump; buttons, signs and stickers proclaiming Beto 2020 could be seen throughout the crowd.Trump is an insult to my proud military family, said Isabel Harris, 60, an immigrant from Mexico who held a sign honoring her son Martin Ferrufino, 32, a disabled veteran of the Iraq war.Ms. Harris said Mr. Trumps efforts to curb immigration was an affront to her son, who crossed the border illegally as a child. Later, he attended high school in El Paso and joined the Army.My son sacrificed for this country, and this is how hes treated? How we are treated? Ms. Harris said in Spanish.Nearby, two El Paso-born brothers, Adam and Andrew Pea, also joined the protest against Mr. Trump.Trump thinks he can rule us by fear, said Adam Pea, 31, a lawyer who lives in San Diego and traveled to El Paso to voice his opposition. Im here to prove him wrong.Mr. Trump got the idea to focus on El Paso from an exchange with the Texas attorney general, Ken Paxton, who told him the wall drastically reduced the citys crime rate and therefore served as a persuasive argument for building one along more of the southwestern border.After that fence went up and separated Jurez, which still has an extremely high crime rate, the crime rates in El Paso are now some of the lowest in the country, Mr. Paxton said. So we know it works.While it is true that Jurez has a much higher crime rate than El Paso  and while the fence did cut down on illegal crossings  the rest of his statement is, at best, highly misleading.The El Paso Times, which analyzed three decades of statistics from the F.B.I. and the local police, found that crime peaked in 1993, with more than 6,500 violent crimes recorded. It then dropped by 34 percent over the next 13 years.The crime rate then increased by 17 percent from 2006 to 2011. Construction of the wall began in 2008, under President George W. Bush, and was completed in mid-2009, during the Obama administration. Crime has ebbed and flowed within a fairly narrow band since then.Local officials, including Mayor Dee Margo, a Republican, have spoken out against Mr. Trumps claims. Representative Veronica Escobar, a Democrat who recently won Mr. ORourkes former seat, has demanded that the president apologize and meet with migrant families seeking asylum in the United States. Among lawmakers who represent border districts, there is remarkably little support for a wall.Yet Mr. Trump has been undeterred. He repeated grisly stories of violent crimes committed by illegal immigrants  never mind that the crime rate among immigrants is no higher than among native-born residents. He said a wall would stem the flow of deadly opioids and other illicit drugs into the United States  another dubious assertion, given that most drugs arrive at legal ports of entry.Mr. Trumps aides are trying to build momentum after last weeks State of the Union address, which they believe was well received by his political base. Unlike some of his predecessors, the president did not immediately leave on a road trip to sell the messages in the address. But he has been eager to return to rallies, which energize him and filled up his calendar before the midterm elections.Mr. Trump dismissed those who disputed his facts about the wall, saying the mayor of El Paso was full of crap, even if he was a Republican.People of El Paso, he asked, am I right?Emily Cochrane and Katie Rogers contributed reporting from Washington.OpinionRichard ParkerAdvertisement"
Paul Manaforts Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dads Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: Coal Mining Isnt Coming BackHouse Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab SpringCan The President Be Impeached? We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season
"AdvertisementListen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherAs the shutdown continues over the presidents demand for a border wall, Annie Brown from The Daily joined Azam Ahmed, a New York Times reporter, and Meridith Kohut, a photojournalist, on their endeavor to drive the entire length of the U.S.-Mexico border. Heres what they saw on the first part of that journey.Listen to Part 2 of this series here.On todays episode:Annie Brown, a producer for The Daily.Azam Ahmed, the New York Times bureau chief for Mexico, Central America and the Caribbean.Meridith Kohut, a photojournalist who covers Latin America.Background reading:Azam Ahmed and Meridith Kohut will travel the border for the next week or so. Follow their journey here.With his insistence on a wall, President Trump has upended the decades-old, bipartisan understanding about how to bargain over the border.The president claims theres a crisis at the border. Heres what we know about the situation.Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if youre interested in advertising with The Daily, write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.Azam Ahmed and Meridith Kohut contributed reporting.Dispatches From the Border, Part 1 was produced by Annie Brown, with help from Clare Toeniskoetter and Jonathan Wolfe, and edited by Lisa Tobin.The Daily is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Jessica Cheung, Lynsea Garrison, Michael Simon Johnson, Andy Mills, Neena Pathak, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah, Clare Toeniskoetter, Jonathan Wolfe and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Larissa Anderson, Paige Cowett and Wendy Dorr. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Chris Wood is our sound engineer. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.China deepens a diplomatic rift with Canada, Theresa May braces for a Brexit defeat and sexual assault allegations rattle South Koreas sports community. Heres the latest:A court in northeastern China sentenced Robert Lloyd Schellenberg to death for smuggling drugs in an unusually swift retrial that escalated Chinas diplomatic conflict with Canada.The details: Mr. Schellenberg was arrested in 2014 and detained for 15 months before his first trial. It took another 32 months before he was declared guilty and sentenced to 15 years in prison. He appealed his sentence, maintaining that he was framed. A court ordered his retrial last month.Why it matters: The retrial came just weeks after Canadian authorities arrested Meng Wanzhou, the chief financial officer of the Chinese telecommunications giant Huawei. Mr. Schellenbergs family had voiced fears that he would be used as a bargaining chip.Whats next? The death sentence needs to be examined and ratified by Chinas highest court. The fate of two other Canadians arrested in China and accused of endangering national security remains unclear.The British Parliament is gearing up for a critical vote on Prime Minister Theresa Mays Brexit plan  and defeat is so widely expected that Mrs. May has been fighting not to avert a loss but to manage its magnitude.In that vein, the prime minister enlisted fresh assurances from Europes most senior officials and warned again of the dangers of a chaotic no deal withdrawal. She also tried to cajole hard-line Brexiteers to support her, even if they hate her plan.The vote could go down as a historically awful defeat  a margin of more than 100 votes would constitute a big loss.Details: The vote is expected to take place on Tuesday evening in London. Well have live updates on nytimes.com.Shim Suk-hee, a two-time Olympic gold medalist on the national speedskating team, said this month that she was repeatedly raped by her former coach, Cho Jae-beom, since she was 17.Mr. Cho was fired before the Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang and has already been sentenced to 10 months in prison for physically assaulting four athletes. But Ms. Shims accusations have sent shock waves through the sports community.This unveils the humiliating underside of our countrys glorious facade as a sports powerhouse, President Moon Jae-in said on Monday.Whats next? The president called for a thorough investigation and more than 260,000 people signed an online petition demanding a longer prison sentence for Mr. Cho.Ms. Shims revelation has also inspired other athletes to come forward  a former judo player publicly accused her former coach of repeatedly raping her since she was in high school, and a skating group said at least two other victims planned to speak.Last year, after Iranian-backed militants fired rockets into an empty lot at the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad, President Trumps national security adviser, John Bolton, asked for military options to strike Iran. The request alarmed several Pentagon officials including Jim Mattis, then the defense secretary.Mr. Mattis and other military leaders opposed retaliating, arguing that the attack was insignificant. In the end, that position won out. But now senior Pentagon officials are voicing concern that Mr. Boltons policy of isolating and pressuring Iran could set off an armed conflict.In Saudi Arabia: Secretary of State Mike Pompeo met with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman to discuss several thorny issues that have weakened the Saudi-U.S. alliance, including the killing of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi. At the same time, Mr. Pompeo reaffirmed the two nations shared opposition to Irans regional policies.Russia investigation: President Trumps attorney general nominee said he would allow the special counsel Robert Mueller to finish his investigation, seeking to allay Democrats fears.Lion Air: Indonesia found the cockpit voice recorder of Flight 610, which could help explain how the plane crashed into the Java Sea in October, killing everyone on board. Officials said the data would probably take two to three months to analyze.Chinese vaccines: Local officials are investigating complaints that more than 100 children received expired polio vaccinations after hundreds of parents protested over the weekend, the latest in a string of similar scandals.1MDB: Goldman Sachs has tried to blame a few rogue bankers for the multibillion-dollar fraud. But the Malaysian government isnt buying it: Dont tell me you dont know where the money went, said the countrys finance minister, speaking with our journalist in Hong Kong.Serena Williams: The tennis star is back in Melbourne for the Australian Open, which she won in 2017 while pregnant. This time, though, the conversation around her threatens to overshadow the tournament itself. Follow along here for the latest from the Open.U.S. shutdown: Airports across the country  including international hubs in Houston and Atlanta  closed some checkpoints as federal officers, who are going without pay during the government shutdown, didnt show up to work.Poland: The mayor of Gdansk, who was a liberal critic of the right-wing national government, died after he was stabbed onstage at a charity concert, stunning an increasingly divided country. The police said the assailant was mentally disturbed and had no clear political motive.Gin: Sales of the juniper-flavored liquor in Britain hit about $2.6 billion last year, a revival that has made it the countrys second-most-popular spirit  surpassing whiskey.Skiing in Kashmir: Gulmarg, in the Himalayas, is one of the worlds highest ski spots. It also sits in disputed territory between India and Pakistan where violence often flares up. Our South Asia bureau chief took his family there on vacation, despite valid concerns from his wife.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Try a tomato-free take on pasta puttanesca, with garlic, anchovies, capers and tuna. (And sign up for Five Weeknight Dishes for more recipes in you inbox.)Tidying up? Heres how you can make some money rather than throwing everything away.Cant catch any sleep on the road? This year, hotels, cruise lines, airports and airlines will furnish amenities to add more shut-eye.Today is a 10th anniversary of a miracle.On Jan. 15, 2009, Capt. Chesley Sullenberger safely ditched his US Airways Airbus A320 in the Hudson River after striking a flock of geese while taking off from New York City.But the so-called Miracle on the Hudson hardly stands alone.In 1982, a British Airways crew glided its Boeing 747 down when volcanic ash clogged all four engines.A Taca pilot landed near New Orleans when his Boeing 737s engines flamed out in a storm in 1988.And a DHL crew survived a missile strike.Soon after taking off on a cargo flight from Baghdad to Bahrain on Nov. 22, 2003, their Airbus A300 was hit by a surface-to-air missile launched by Iraqi insurgents. The damage made its flight controls inoperable.Using only the engines to control the planes direction and altitude, the crew headed back to the airport and landed their aircraft (mostly) on the runway.Wheres their Tom Hanks movie?Zach Wichter wrote todays Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.An earlier version of this briefing misstated when Serena Williams won the Australian Open while pregnant. It was in 2017, not last year.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byletterWhether or not President Trump is an agent of Russia, pulling the U.S. out of NATO serves Russian not American interests. To the Editor:Re As Russia Works to Weaken NATO, Trump Talks of a U.S. Withdrawal (news article, Jan. 15):Whether or not President Trump is an agent of Russia (a knowing agent or what the Soviets used to call a useful idiot who unwittingly did their bidding), the presidents expressed desire to pull the United States out of NATO furthers Russias aims. More important, it lacks reason, knowledge or sense and would harm this country.No knowledgeable person in the United States believes it to be to our benefit to leave the alliance. Thus, whether or not the president is an agent of a foreign power, he is working against the interests of the nation he purports to lead. Short of handing over the nuclear codes, nothing could be worse.Jonathan J. MargolisBrookline, Mass.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Lisa Lerer, Richard Fausset and Julie TurkewitzRYE, N.H.  For Democratic presidential candidates on Saturday, it wasnt quite campaigning as usual after the delivery of a long-awaited report from the special counsel roiled Washington over the weekend. But it was pretty close.At events across early primary states, voters asked about health care and school shootings and immigration. Questioners were far less likely to address the report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, which was delivered to Attorney General William P. Barr on Friday.Democratic voters said they cared deeply about the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election but werent quite sure what to make of the latest twist, exactly.[Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.]We dont know whats in it, said Alane Sullivan, 63, a retired businesswoman, after attending a town hall meeting with Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota in Rye, N.H. One thing about people in New Hampshire: They are looking for answers, and they knew she wouldnt know yet.The lack of questions at campaign events about the report surprised some of the candidates, who had come prepared with lines about the latest development in the nearly two-year investigation.I tried to kind of delicately bring it up because I think it is the major issue, Ms. Klobuchar told reporters after her event.Ms. Klobuchar used a question about the separation of powers to mention her desire that the findings be made public  but that was the beginning and the end of public conversation about the topic.In South Carolina, the one question Beto ORourke, the former Texas congressman, fielded about the Mueller report came from State Senator Marlon Kimpson, a local Democrat and a host of a town hall with Mr. ORourke in Charleston. He asked whether Congress should consider impeaching the president assuming theres facts and evidence that President Trump knew about collusion or coordination with Russians who meddled in the 2016 election.But others in attendance figured the answers would come later.I dont think you can really process anything right now, because we dont know whats in it, said Amy Drennan, 42, who works for a magazine publisher.Mr. ORourke said that the nation should employ this mechanism of impeachment as an absolute last resort. Ultimately, that will be a decision for our representatives in Congress to make. But he also said that the matter would ultimately be decided at the ballot box in 2020.The response received warm rounds of applause.With no detailed information available, Democrats have focused their attention on pressuring Mr. Barr to release the full report quickly. In the hours after Justice Department officials announced that the inquiry was over, Democratic presidential candidates called for the rapid and complete release of the findings.My No. 1 focus right now is to get it public, Ms. Klobuchar, who said she was worried that Mr. Barr would resist releasing details, told reporters after her town hall meeting. Ninety percent of Americans want to see it public.The conclusion of the investigation signifies a turning point in Donald Trumps presidency, one that Democrats hope will bolster their efforts to depict his administration as corrupt, self-serving and divisive.But the fact that Mr. Mueller did not charge any Americans with conspiring with Russia to influence the election immediately buoyed Republicans seeking to lift the cloud that has surrounded the president for much of his time in office.Still, Democratic candidates and people who showed up at their campaign events on Saturday tended to focus on more immediate concerns.Free every Dreamer of any fear of deportation by making them American citizens now, Mr. ORourke proclaimed, responding to a question about the children of immigrants who are known as Dreamers that came from a Hispanic woman who said she herself was one of them.A middle-school-age boy said he wanted to know what could be done to make him feel safer in his classroom. Mr. ORourke called for ending the sale of weapons designed for the express purpose of killing people.If they are boilerplate liberal messages, the messenger was received as something special, particularly in Charleston, where Mr. ORourke, at the town hall-style meeting at a local high school and a Friday night event at an area brewpub, drew largely white and well-heeled crowds bursting with excitement.Here and elsewhere, Mr. ORourke delivered his message with a rat-a-tat urgency, his knees bouncing in rhythm with his words, with one hand grasping a microphone and the other one gesticulating like a bull rider out of the chute.Frankie Galizia, 27, a human resources manager from Hilton Head Island, S.C., said he was sold on Mr. ORourke because of his relatable style and because he hoped he would do a better job on issues he cares about, like L.G.B.T. rights.He wanted to know as much as possible about the Mueller reports contents, he said. But for now, it takes a complete back seat to the major issues this country faces.The situation was much the same in Concord, N.H., where John Hickenlooper, the former Colorado governor, was meeting with voters.Mr. Hickenlooper, standing on a pair of barstools inside a packed brewery, told the tale of his rise from laid-off geologist to state leader, and then took questions on single-payer health care and the national debt.Henry Herndon, 26, an independent voter who works for a green energy advocacy group, said he had little reaction to the news that the report had been completed. He stood in the back of the brewery, chewing on a soft pretzel.Im numbed to it, he said, the media hype hype hype of this issue. He didnt think candidates should be taking on stance on it right now, he said.Theres nothing to comment on. Yet.Patricia Shearin, 54, a farmer and a Democrat, said she saw no reason candidates should comment on the report at this stage, and she urged them to refrain from calling for impeachment.I think if you talk about impeachment you are going to anger those embedded supporters of Trump even more. And we want him out of the White House. I think the report should be made public and hopefully those that are in place to make decisions will be ethical.Campaigning in South Carolina on Saturday, Pete Buttigieg, the 37-year-old mayor of South Bend, Ind., said Democrats should focus on why Mr. Trump was elected in the first place rather than pin their hopes on impeachment as the way to end his presidency.To me the most decisive way to put an end to Trumpism is for it be defeated massively at the ballot box, he told reporters.Lisa Lerer reported from Rye, N.H., Richard Fausset from Charleston, S.C. and Julie Turkewitz from Concord, N.H. Trip Gabriel contributed from Columbia, S.C.Advertisement"
"

      By SAHIL CHINOY and 
    
JESSIA MA

JAN. 26, 2019

Here are the paths that the members of the House of Representatives took to Congress. Each line represents a  Democratic or  Republican representative, and  circles are the major educational, career and political milestones on their path to the House. Items are not exhaustive nor in chronological order.Here are the paths that the members of the House of Representatives took to Congress. Each line represents a  Democratic or  Republican representative, and  circles are the major educational, career and political milestones on their path to the House. Items are not exhaustive nor in chronological order.The United States does not grant titles of nobility. There are no lords, barons or dukes here. At least, not officially.Unofficially, however, Congress is made up of people who have credentials and experiences vastly different from those of most citizens. Unofficially, considering education, career, family background and personal wealth, it seems that America has a ruling class  or at least a limited number of ways to enter the halls of power.Here, weve traced the pre-congressional career of every House member in the 116th Congress, showing the narrow but well-trodden paths through prestigious schools, lucrative jobs and local political offices that led the latest crop of legislators to Capitol Hill.The new House has a notable number of political novices, and more women and people of color than any Congress in history. But a majority of members, even the new ones, still made it to Washington by way of institutions and professions that are out of reach for most Americans.More than 70 percent of House members were lawyers in private practice, businesspeople (including employees in insurance, banking, finance and real estate) or medical professionals. That work can inform the types of bills they introduce, according to research by Katie Francis, a faculty member at Western Governors University. Doctors sponsor more health care legislation, for example.In part because Congress is filled with successful white-collar professionals, the House is much, much richer than the people it represents, and affluent politicians support legislation that benefits their own class at the expense of others. Wealthier legislators are, for instance, more likely to vote to repeal the estate tax.The rosy notion that lawmakers from business and professional backgrounds want what is best for everyone is seriously out of line with the realities of legislative decision-making in the United States, wrote Nicholas Carnes, a Duke professor of public policy, in his book White-Collar Government. About 5 percent of representatives dont have a bachelors degree, compared with about two-thirds of Americans 25 and older.Hover to see members with no bachelors degreeThe path to the House starts with higher education. About half of members graduated from public universities, often in their home states, but more than 10 percent of representatives have bachelors degrees from elite, private colleges.It makes sense to elect educated leaders, and voters seem to think a college education is a necessary qualification for office. But the link between having a degree and being a more effective politician is tenuous. Research on legislators in the United States and in Brazil shows that lawmakers with more formal education are not more productive, more popular or less likely to be corrupt.The gap between legislators and their constituents is stark in graduate education, too. Almost 70 percent of representatives attended graduate school, but only around 10 percent of Americans 25 and older can say the same.More than one in three members have law degrees, compared with around 13 percent in the United Kingdom's Parliament.Law schoolAmong both Democrats and Republicans, lawyers are staggeringly overrepresented: They constitute less than 1 percent of the voting-age population but more than one-third of the House. Perhaps it is natural for the people writing laws to study them first. But the United States is an exception internationally. Research by Adam Bonica of Stanford and Maya Sen of Harvard found that in Sweden, France and Denmark, lawyers make up less than 10 percent of the legislature.Not only are lawyers more likely to run for office, they are also more likely to win. This success is largely because of the advantage they have in early fund-raising, drawing from professional networks of other lawyers and affluent professionals.Once in office, lawyers tend to vote in a way that benefits their profession. They are less likely to support laws that would cap awards for damages or regulate legal fees, according to Mr. Bonica and Ms. Sens research.Almost 40 percent of House members, more than half Republicans, cite business experience.Business owners, executives or professionalsIn addition to small business owners and corporate executives, the House is filled with people who worked in finance, insurance and banking.Members with business backgrounds sometimes argue that their outside the Beltway experience will enable them to run government more like a business  to reduce grift and waste and to pass laws more efficiently. Indeed, a majority of Americans think the country would be better governed with more people from business and management, according to a 2014 Gallup poll.House members with business backgrounds get more contributions from corporations and vote for pro-business legislation more often. Other research has shown that states with more legislators who worked in the insurance industry are likely to pass bills more favorable to it. Fewer than 5 percent of representatives cite blue-collar or service jobs in their biographies.Blue-collar or service jobThey include Tom Marino, Republican of Pennsylvania, who worked in factories before law school and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Democrat of New York, who often refers to her working-class experience as a bartender when explaining her left-leaning economic policy positions.Mr. Carnes notes that there is no dearth of politically ambitious, qualified working-class candidates. And when working-class candidates run, they do just as well as candidates from other backgrounds. But blue-collar workers are less able to shoulder the practical burdens associated with running a campaign  like taking time off from paid employment  and less likely to be asked to run by local party leaders and officials.To get people with a more diverse set of experiences into Congress, he argues, we need to focus on recruiting working-class candidates at the local level  often years before a potential congressional run.Nearly one in five members served or currently serve in the armed forces, including the National Guard.Military experienceThis is a substantial decline from the early 1970s, when more than 70 percent of Congress had military experience.Seventy percent of veterans in the House are Republicans  but several Democratic women elected in 2018 made their military experience a focus of their campaigns, including Chrissy Houlahan, Democrat of Pennsylvania, who served in the Air Force.Common fields for Republicans include medicine, real estate and farming. For Democrats, they include teaching, nonprofits and unions.Experience in one of the above fieldsThere are rarer occupations, too. Colin Allred, Democrat of Texas, played for the Tennessee Titans in the N.F.L. before becoming a lawyer. Jody B. Hice, Republican of Georgia, served as a pastor before stepping down to run for office. He also started a conservative talk radio show.Other professions are underrepresented, with material consequences for lawmaking. Only about 15 United States representatives are scientists or engineers, which could partly explain lackluster action on climate change and ineffectual regulation of technology companies.Women tend to have followed more varied paths to Capitol Hill: A smaller proportion are lawyers and businesspeople.Female representativesWhile men might run for office because of a longstanding desire to be an elected official, women are more likely to run because they encounter something in their engagement with the political system that angers them enough or frustrates them enough, said Kelly Dittmar, a political scientist at Rutgers Universitys Center for American Women and Politics.When they run, men and women have roughly the same chance of winning. But research by Sarah A. Fulton, a political scientist at Texas A&M University, shows that female candidates tend to be more qualified.Many female representatives campaigned on their experience in business and the working world. Some, like Ann Wagner, Republican of Missouri, also highlighted more traditional domestic roles. Her website says her most important jobs, despite her previous role as ambassador to Luxembourg, have always been as a wife, mother and now grandmother.Only 20 percent of House members did not hold previous political office before entering Congress.No previous political officeHistorically, it is somewhat rare for representatives to reach the House without holding previous political office. Nearly 200 representatives have experience in a state legislature; others were mayors, local district attorneys or state agency heads. These experiences arent just symbolic. New legislators with political experience introduce and pass more bills, according to Ms. Francis research.But drawing politicians from local governments and state legislatures also gives an edge to people who can afford to take those jobs. In some states, those positions dont pay enough to live on. New Hampshires legislature, for example, pays just $200 per two-year term. As a result, state politicians are often local economic elites and corporate titans, said Jake Grumbach, a researcher at Princeton.The new representatives in the 116th Congress, however, do represent a significant break from the past. More than 40 percent of those elected in November are political novices who have never worked in government. Many were inspired to run in order to stand up to President Trumps agenda  two-thirds of new members are Democrats  but they may also have been emboldened by Mr. Trumps lack of political experience.That hasnt translated into lots of working-class candidates in this cycle, Mr. Carnes said, but the larger narrative I see on both sides is, You dont have to be an establishment type to be a good politician.Sahil Chinoy and Jessia Ma are graphics editors for The Times.
      Isvett Verde contributed research.Methodology We did not consider associate degrees or schools that a representative attended but did not graduate from. We counted only a first bachelors degree. Elite colleges refers to the eight Ivy League colleges and Duke, M.I.T., Stanford and the University of Chicago. We counted only full-time jobs held for a substantial period of a representatives adult career; we discounted summer jobs, adjunct teaching positions and volunteering or serving on a board. We did not include political party positions or staff jobs in a congressional or other political office. Government experience includes both elected and appointed office, but does not include staff roles in a government agency. Note The results of the 2018 election in North Carolinas Ninth District have not been certified, so no representative is included here. Sources Biographical Directory of the United States Congress; CQ Roll Call; officials websites; Vote Smart; news reports; Pathways to Congress: Precongressional Careers and Congressional Behavior; Nicholas Carnes Note The results of the 2018 election in North Carolinas Ninth District have not been certified, so no representative is included here.Sources Biographical Directory of the United States Congress; CQ Roll Call; officials websites; Vote Smart; news reports; Pathways to Congress: Precongressional Careers and Congressional Behavior; Nicholas CarnesAdvertisement"
"He was the most notorious comedian in America. A lot has changed in 30 years. Has he?Andrew Dice Clay at home in Los Angeles. CreditCreditMichael Schmelling for The New York TimesSupported byBy Jessica ShawI get it, girls. Its rape. Andrew Dice Clay was contemplating Harvey Weinstein while pacing the stage at the Laugh Factory on New Years weekend, a 320-person club inside the Tropicana in Las Vegas, a casino with $10 tables and zero inferiority complex about it.But for guys in here 50 or 60 years old, its not the rape we grew up with, he said.Black jeans, leather vest, fingerless gloves, sunglasses at 10 p.m., a cigarette dangling from his mouth. The vibe was about as 80s as parachute-pants-wearing Transformers that morph into ALF singing Megadeth. Over the course of three not-quite-sold-out nights, Mr. Clay did his shtick on everything from erratic electronic soap dispensers (saying thats how the Japanese, but using a racist epithet, are getting back at us for Hiroshima and Nagasaki) to the White House (Donny Trump, he stole half my act to become president).A few days later, 61-year-old Andrew Silverstein of Los Angeles, by way of Brooklyn, was pacing the kitchen at his sensible suburban house in Sherman Oaks, this time in a short-sleeved hooded sweatshirt and elastic pants. His once jet-black hair is resigned to gray. The sunglasses he had worn on stage were folded in their case on the brown granite kitchen island, the dishwasher cycle providing some background buzz.What do you want to eat? he asked. I got lox. I got bagels. Is the temperature O.K. for you in here? The only thing Andrew Dice Clay wants more than to offend you is to be loved by you.Three decades before his turn as Allys limo-driver father in A Star Is Born, Mr. Clay was on the Mount Rushmore of comedy as Dice, his outrageously offensive and especially sexist alter ego. Or at least he always insisted it was a character, a distinction that often felt blurry. Its very hard to explain Dice, he said, even after all these years. I call myself 50 shades of Dice. There are parts of whats on stage thats real. I did smoke, I am from Brooklyn. I do have certain views on relationships. The persona caught the eye of Mitzi Shore, the late founder of the Comedy Store in West Hollywood, Calif., where he worked the mic alongside Robin Williams, Eddie Murphy and Garry Shandling. Mr. Clay went on to become the first comedian to sell out Madison Square Garden for two consecutive nights, in 1990. (Other comedians who have sold out the arena include Louis C.K., Kevin Hart and Aziz Ansari, no strangers themselves to controversy.)His 1989 debut comedy album, Dice, sold 500,000 copies. His second, The Day the Laughter Died, made a big splash in 1990. Barry Diller, Mr. Clay writes in his memoir, The Filthy Truth, was eyeing him for a role opposite Marisa Tomei in My Cousin Vinny.But by the second half of 1990 he had been branded with a scarlet C, for controversial. MTV banned him after he recited his trademark lewd nursery rhymes at the 1989 Video Music Awards. Nora Dunn, a Saturday Night Live cast member, and Sinead OConnor refused to appear on the episode he hosted in May 1990. His manager dropped him; a three-picture deal with Mr. Diller was canceled. Mr. Clay uses the word blackballed when describing it now.But a funny thing happened on the way to irrelevance. In 2011, Doug Ellin, a producer of Entourage and a fan since childhood, cast him in the final season as a fictionalized version of Andrew Dice Clay. That led to a critically lauded role in Woody Allens Blue Jasmine and eventually to A Star Is Born, just nominated for eight Oscars. Mr. Clay turns in a well-received performance as Lorenzo, the doting and melancholy father of Lady Gagas character, Ally. Not in a Huh, hes actually not half bad way. Andrew Dice Clay is not a double negative; the guy can act.Sign up here to receive Wait , a weekly newsletter that investigates a question in the news and pop culture.Ill tell you a Bradley Cooper story, he said of the Star Is Born director, actor and co-writer. To listen to Mr. Clay deliver a story is to go along for a 40-minute journey of Mulholland Drive-worthy twists and turns, complete with show-and-tell stops in various rooms of his house. An unlit cigarette didnt leave his right hand until it was thrown into the kitchen garbage, only to be replaced by another unlit cigarette, the fun extinguished by a heart attack in November 2017. (Our scheduled one-hour interview turned into a four-hour marathon near-monologue that I eventually had to cut short so I didnt miss my flight home. Mr. Clay was concerned about my trip, a redeye in coach, and offered to call Jet Blue with me to see if there were affordable, lie-back seats available.)In addition to that Bradley Cooper story, he also had a Martin Scorsese story, a Jerry Lewis story, an Eminem story. Teaching Chris Rock how to walk on stage. Discussing a possible team-up with John Travolta in the Club Lingerie parking lot. Schooling Lady Gaga in cymbals. You get the idea. I got so many stories, Mr. Clay said. No one wants to hear all of them. (Perhaps John Singleton will, now that he has signed on to direct a Dice documentary, though Mr. Singleton has yet to reach out and Mr. Clay is itching to share the hundreds of video tapes in the drawer over there, the one underneath his sons bar mitzvah picture.)Back to the Bradley Cooper story, which began with ... Guns N Roses. In 1992, Axl Rose talked Mr. Clay off a claustrophobic ledge about performing at the Rose Bowl. He told me, Youre going to be outside. Just look at the sky. Mr. Clay said. He actually spoke common sense. For Axl, thats big!Years later, Mr. Clay was touring Australia, had a smoke with Slash (the bands guitarist), and long story short, says he got Guns N Roses back together. How is this a Star Is Born story? He was getting there. About 10 minutes to go. In 2016, the newly reunited G N R performed a welcome-back concert at the Troubadour on Santa Monica Boulevard. Mr. Clay was sitting on a bench in the V.I.P. section with Vincent Gallo, Nicolas Cage and some huge girl singer, one of the biggest in the world. I dont remember her name. Just as he was walking out at the end of the show, he passed Mr. Cooper, who had brought his mother to the show. Hey, Mr. Clay recalled saying, one foot out the door, I just want to tell you, you were great in Sniper. Not so fast, you! Mrs. Cooper hollered after him. Do you know what you mean to my family? Soon Mr. Clay was in a recording studio improvising father-daughter dialogue and weeping like a baby into Lady Gagas blond mane. A casting story is born. This was in the spring of 2017, months before the #MeToo movement would reframe our perceptions of provocative, and often offensive, comedy.Over the course of the afternoon, I struggled to reconcile the comic on stage ranting about how the only reason his pal Louis C.K. is reviled for masturbating in front of women is because hes ugly (If hed been George Clooney or Brad Pitt or Leonardo DiCaprio, youd go, Do it again!) with the vulnerable throwback who shares his own #MeToo stories about older casting agents expecting sex when he was starting out, and a fan who recently put his hand down Mr. Clays pants. I now know how a woman feels when theyre touched by a stranger inappropriately, he quietly said, before clunkily joking: Now there are so many accusations, it becomes like, O.K., me too? Im starting the #MeThree movement.Asked if hes concerned with how a new generation may receive his comedy, Mr. Clay said: Do I look scared?You know what I hear when people come to see me? he continued. Im glad youre not buckling to political correctness. Im a certain brand. Im like Coca-Cola. When they changed their can, no one wanted to know from it. I couldnt care less what anybody thinks.And yet he did care that I saw a huge photo collage he painstakingly hand cut for his father (the inscription reads: Dear Dad, I hope one day my sons feel about me the way I feel about you) and asked me to recite a framed poem written by his son Dillon at age 11. Mr. Clay split from his second wife, Kathleen Monica, in 2002. They have two children, Dillon, now 24, and Max, 28, for whom their father converted the living room into a makeshift band rehearsal space. (Theres not a Jewish parent alive who brags more about the talent of his boys!) He also exercises with them almost daily at Golds Gym, usually the one in Venice, where Mr. Clay listens to self-made mix tapes on one of his three portable cassette players.My personal life has always been more important than my professional life, Mr. Clay said. I didnt care if I had 100 Academy Awards. I wanted to be there for my boys and bring them up right. Unlike some other assertions that felt exaggerated by anywhere from 3 to 300 percent, this one rang completely true.As Mr. Clay continued to explain, theres Andrew (which he said I could call him) and theres Dice. Theres a lot on stage thats real, he said. But if you took my set in the right way, you know he doesnt realize what hes saying, which I find hysterical.Do his fans understand that? I have some really dumb fans and some really smart fans. I cant say how everyone individually takes my material.At times, I wasnt sure I could distinguish, like when Andrew went on a very Dice-like tangent about the term body shaming and said, If theres a 400-pound guy in the front row of my show, Im going to shred him. Nothing funnier.He insisted that the real acting award I should get is for what Ive done in comedy for 40 years. While I sat with him I remembered looking around at the audience in Vegas a week earlier. One fan was cackling with joy, and another had a look of horror and confusion on her face that screamed: What exactly am I witnessing here? I felt like both of them at once.This weekend, Mr. Clay may take home an award as part of the Star Is Born ensemble at the Screen Actors Guild Awards. Though hes bringing the comedian Eleanor Kerrigan, a close friend, as his date, hes hoping to meet a woman that night, as he did at the movies premiere, because he just doesnt want to do the dating app thing that his sons have tried talking him into. Of course, when he took the woman from the premiere out to Craigs, a restaurant in West Hollywood, things ended awkwardly. For two and a half hours Im telling this girl Im very regular and very grounded, he said. And when we leave, its bulb mania. The paparazzi was all over me. Dice! Dice! He ended up taking her to the Comedy Store that night so she could watch him do an impromptu set, as he sometimes does on Monday nights, because I need to know if a girl can accept what I do. The only woman who couldnt, he said, was his first wife. (Hes got a story about being served with those divorce papers while he was at an outdoor cafe with Mickey Rourke, if youve got the time.)Whether or not he scores at the awards, Mr. Clay may come home, smoke a joint with Max and Dillon, and watch something on Netflix, which he signed up for a few months ago. The night before I visited, he and the boys were up until 5 a.m. watching Adam Sandler in 50 First Dates. But mark his words, if the cast does win, he will give a speech. And they better not cut me off either, he said. I hate that. People have things to say.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Melina Delkic and Marcus Payadue(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.) Good evening. Heres the latest.1. Its here.The special counsel, Robert Mueller, delivered a report on his inquiry into Russian interference in the 2016 election to Attorney General William Barr.It was the apparent close of an investigation that has captivated the nation and cast a shadow over President Trump for nearly two years. We dont yet know the reports contents. Mr. Barr will now decide how much of it to share with Congress and, by extension, the public. Above, Mr. Mueller leaving the Capitol in 2017.Mr. Mueller will not recommend that any new charges be filed, a senior Justice Department official said. Since Mr. Muellers appointment in 2017, a half-dozen former Trump aides have been indicted or convicted of crimes, and dozens of Russians were charged.Find our guides to major moments in the case, and what we already know about the main findings, lines of inquiry and players._____2. The path to the reports potential release is complicated. The House voted unanimously this month to make its findings public, and now its up to Attorney General William Barr, pictured above, to decide how much of it to share.In a letter to congressional leaders, he said he might brief them within days. House Democrats are already calling for the release of not only the full report, but also the underlying documents and findings. In a joint statement, Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York urged Mr. Barr not to give the White House a sneak preview of the report before the public can see it.Watch our video guide to how we got here. Still have questions? Ask our reporters about the latest developments and what may come next._____3. President Trump rolled back sanctions against North Korea today, confusing advisers who had put them in place only a day earlier. The move, announced on Twitter, was a remarkable display of dissension in the Trump administration. The Treasury announced sanctions Thursday on two Chinese shipping companies it said were helping North Korea evade international sanctions.The sanctions came weeks after a summit meeting between Mr. Trump and Kim Jong-un, North Koreas leader, collapsed without a nuclear deal. Above, the two leaders in Hanoi, Vietnam, in February.President Trump likes Chairman Kim, and he doesnt think these sanctions will be necessary, said Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary._____4. Indonesias national airline wants to cancel a $4.9 billion order of dozens of Boeing 737 Max 8 jets in the wake of two deadly crashes.The move would be the first publicly confirmed cancellation attempt since the Ethiopian Airlines crash of a Max 8 that killed 157 people. Above, planes belonging to the airline, Garuda Indonesia.Its unclear if the cancellation will move forward, as it is difficult to cancel such agreements once they have been signed. Few analysts expect other airlines to follow suit._____5. Stocks fell today as the bond market flashed a recession warning.When long-term yields fall below yields on short-term bonds, its called a yield curve inversion. Its one of Wall Streets favored predictors of a recession, and these have preceded every recession over the last 60 years. And it happened on Friday.In other business news, Teslas sales may have dropped sharply in recent months, after a federal tax credit was reduced, according to vehicle registration data. Above, a Tesla showroom.And one industry is making an unexpected comeback: Paper mills are seeing a resurgence as online retailers like Amazon fuel demand for cardboard boxes._____6. A gatekeeper for recruited athletes applying to the University of Southern California was once known as a stickler for the rules.Now, Donna Heinel, the universitys former athletic department administrator, is accused of being at the fulcrum of the nationwide scandal, conspiring with a private admissions consultant to obtain millions in bribes and then easing two dozen students into U.S.C. on bogus athletic credentials.Ms. Heinel was as hard as it gets, a former coach said. She meticulously combed through recruits files, clashing with coaches when she found flaws. Above, Ms. Heinel posing with students during a football game in 2016.One of the recruits she appeared to block from admission went to a rival university  and competed in the 2016 Olympics.Elsewhere in California, we traveled to a West Hollywood school where proctors are accused of giving test answers to students. Sign up for California Today for more West Coast news._____7. The worlds largest international police organization is supposed to be a force for safety and security  one that transcends national boundaries and brings together democracies and autocracies.Instead, according to records and interviews across five continents, Interpol prioritized international expansion over safeguards, meaning despots and human rights violators could potentially use the agency to arrest people based on political motivations. Above, Interpols headquarters in Lyon, France.A crucial part of the system is the red notice, a kind of warrant in which police officers in one country ask foreign counterparts to make an arrest. When the system works, it helps catch murderers, rapists and sexual predators who cross national borders. But it has also been used to target refugees and dissidents._____8. Its hard enough being a teenager, balancing rigorous schoolwork with social pressures that are heightened by online platforms.Imagine being one of the few black and Hispanic students at one of the countrys most selective public schools. Thats what the 29 black students  out of 3,300  at Stuyvesant High School in New York, pictured above, experience.Sarai Pridgen, a 16-year-old sophomore, said she wasnt surprised when she saw that only seven black students were admitted for the fall. It was the same wave of disappointment I feel every time I look at the demographics of this school._____9. Its Day 2 of the N.C.A.A. mens basketball tournament.No. 1-seeded Virginia rallied out of a deep hole to advance. It was a chance to atone for its unprecedented early exit from the 2018 N.C.A.A. tournament, when it became the first No. 1 seed to lose to a No. 16.U.C. Irvine, a 13th seed, upset No. 4 Kansas State. It was the first N.C.A.A. tournament victory in the Irvine programs history. Above, the game between U.C. Irvine and Kansas State.Read live updates here.Saturdays first game will be Maryland vs. L.S.U. at 12:10 p.m., and then Wofford versus Kentucky._____10. Finally, travel changes your life.At least, thats what Rick Steves, the PBS travel host for nearly two decades, wants you to believe. For The Times Magazines Voyages issue, Mr. Steves, pictured above, spoke to our writer about his desire to convert the untraveled, and his role as a sort of spiritual travel agent for Americas middle classes.Our writer asked why he doesnt ease up on his extensive travel schedule  which occupies him for four months a year. What would I do if I stayed home? Mr. Steves said. Not much. Nothing I would remember.Have a memorable night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And dont miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Ben HubbardISTANBUL  Saudi Arabia appointed a princess as its new ambassador to the United States on Saturday, the first time the kingdom has named a woman to such a post.The appointment of Princess Reema bint Bandar bin Sultan by royal decree came amid strained relations between Saudi Arabia and the United States over the killing of the Saudi dissident Jamal Khashoggi by Saudi agents in Istanbul in October.While members of Congress have pursued measures to hold Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman responsible for the killing and to cut military aid to the Saudi war in Yemen, President Trump has stood by the kingdom, seeing it as a valuable Middle Eastern ally and reliable buyer of American weapons.Princess Reema will replace Prince Khalid bin Salman, a son of King Salman and a younger brother of the crown prince, who took the post in 2017. Also in a royal decree on Saturday, Prince Khalid was named deputy defense minister under the crown prince, who heads the ministry.Since his father ascended to the throne in 2015, Prince Mohammed has pushed for vast changes in Saudi Arabia. He has called for a more diversified economy, granted women the right to drive, expanded entertainment options and moderated the kingdoms official religious rhetoric, while also spearheading a disastrous military intervention in Yemen and other policies that have raised doubts about his judgment.The appointment of Princess Reema to Washington appeared aimed at turning a new page after the killing of Mr. Khashoggi, who lived in Virginia and was a columnist for The Washington Post, while also emphasizing the kingdoms social reforms in the capital of its most important ally.In addition to representing the new possibilities now available for Saudi women, Princess Reema is the daughter of Prince Bandar bin Sultan, a towering figure in Saudi diplomacy who served as the kingdoms ambassador to the United States from 1983 to 2005. He was so close with the Bush family that he was often referred to as Bandar Bush.Princess Reema spent many years in Washington while her father was ambassador and graduated with a degree in museum studies from George Washington University. She has recently served in the kingdoms sports commission.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byOn Politics With Lisa LererBy Lisa LererHi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. Im Lisa Lerer, your host.[Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.]Last January, Gavin Newsom called on President Trump to resign, describing him as a joke and a racist.Oh, the changes a year  and a boost to the governors mansion  can bring.That was during a campaign, Mr. Newsom told me this weekend, saying he couldnt quite remember what, exactly, he felt Mr. Trump should resign over. Its just so indicative of this moment, I couldnt even tell you. It was 4,623 tweets ago.I sat down with Mr. Newsom while he was in Washington for an annual conference of governors. Now the governor of California, he acknowledged how important it was that he find a way to work with the president  even one whos disliked by the majority of voters in his state.As the countrys most populous state, California politics always play an outsized role on the national stage. During the Trump era, it has become the vanguard of the Democratic Party, a testing ground for policies, lawsuits and political tactics designed to promote a progressive agenda and undercut the administration.One in eight Americans lives in California. Two-thirds of residents disapprove of the president.But Mr. Newsom needs Mr. Trump  or at least his federal dollars.In November, Mr. Newsom, Mr. Trump and then-Gov. Jerry Brown toured devastation caused by the Camp Fire, which burned most of the town of Paradise, killed more than 80 people and destroyed nearly 14,000 homes. Mr. Trump promised then to work with Mr. Newsom; two months later, the president threatened to cut off federal aid to wildfire victims.So, is it possible for the leader of the state of resistance, who bashed Mr. Trump relentlessly during the campaign, to have a productive relationship with the president?I hope so, Mr. Newsom said. I dont know. The two exchanged little more than pleasantries during a dinner Mr. Trump hosted for governors at the White House on Sunday.But Im pursuing that because its just its too damn important, he told me. And the risks are too great to bear.Over the past week, the relationship between Mr. Trump and California seems to have hit a new low. A day after the state joined 15 others in filing a lawsuit challenging the presidents emergency declaration on the border, the Transportation Department said it was looking into ways to claw back $2.5 billion in federal funds it had already spent on the states high-speed rail network.Mr. Trump lashed out on Twitter, writing that California, the state that has wasted billions of dollars on their out of control Fast Train, with no hope of completion, seems in charge of the lawsuit. Mr. Newsom fired back, calling the Transportation Departments move political retribution.Then, two days later, the administration said it was ending negotiations with California over the presidents plan to undo Obama-era fuel efficiency standards.The timing of that announcement was awfully curious, said Mr. Newsom, who stressed that negotiations over the standards have been largely unproductive for months.But despite Mr. Newsoms professed desire to work with the president, the politics of the feud could benefit both men. The governor knows that the Democrats who voted him into office crave confrontation with Mr. Trump. And for Republicans, railing on the ills of California has become a red-meat rallying cry, citing the state as a symbol of high taxes, liberal social policy and lax immigration enforcement.Were Americas coming attraction, and for some people thats very livening. For others, it scares the hell out of them, said Mr. Newsom. I get it. I watch Tucker Carlson.Do you live in California? We want to hear your thoughts on your states relationship with the president. Send us an email at onpolitics@nytimes.com, including your name and city, and we may highlight it in our next newsletter.[Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.]____________________President Trump will meet for the second time with Kim Jong-un of North Korea this week. We asked Edward Wong, a diplomatic correspondent for The Times, to explain to us what makes this summit different from the last. Heres what he told us:As I type this, sitting on a United Airlines flight bound for the tropics of Southeast Asia, President Trump and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo are both on their own planes en route to the same destination. The rendezvous point is Hanoi, where Mr. Trump is expected to meet with Kim Jong-un, the young leader of North Korea. It will be their second summit. But more is at stake this time  the two nations must find a way to take significant steps toward the general goals outlined in the joint communiqu from their first meeting, including denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, or they risk having the ongoing diplomacy fall apart.Mr. Trump has entrusted Mr. Pompeo with laying the groundwork for a successful summit. Mr. Pompeo and his diplomats have taken that to heart, trying to negotiate what are called deliverables  concrete things, given by one side to the other, that are announced to tie a neat bow on a summit. It is not an easy task for Mr. Pompeo: My colleague David Sanger and I wrote a profile of his struggles with the challenges to his hard-line foreign policy vision from North Korea, Iran, Venezuela and even American allies.North Korea presents a vexing problem that is, in part, the doing of Mr. Pompeos boss. With an eye toward the Nobel Peace Prize, Mr. Trump has declared on Twitter that North Korea is no longer a nuclear threat and said he and Mr. Kim fell in love. On Sunday, Mr. Trump told a gathering of governors at the White House that he was happy as long as North Korea did not do nuclear tests, which it halted in late 2017. Mr. Pompeo directly contradicted the presidents earlier statement when he told Jake Tapper of CNN on Sunday that North Korea was still a nuclear threat. Ever the loyal cabinet member  some would say mouthpiece  he tried to pretend Mr. Trump never mentioned the lack of nuclear threat, but Mr. Tapper presented him with the exact words from Mr. Trump.So how do you do diplomacy when the presidents view of reality is starkly different than yours? To complicate matters, some White House officials  including John R. Bolton, the national security adviser  take an even more hard-line view of North Korea than Mr. Pompeo, and they are carefully watching whether Mr. Pompeo is moving the goal posts on full denuclearization. Already, Mr. Pompeos envoy has signaled that a declaration of nuclear assets from the North can take place later in the process, a shift in the American negotiating position.And what does the North Korean leader think of all this? In a speech last Friday at Stanford, Andrew Kim, a recently retired C.I.A. official on North Korea, recalled remarkable words he and Mr. Pompeo heard from the young leader during a visit to Pyongyang last April. Kim Jong-un, replying to Mr. Pompeo asking him whether he was truly ready to give up nuclear weapons, said: Im a father and a husband. And I have children. And I dont want my children to carry the nuclear weapon on their back their whole life.Read Edwards latest story: Defender of World Order or Trump Mouthpiece? Pompeo Is Tested by North Korea, Iran and U.S. Allies____________________ Oregon is expected to enact the nations first statewide rent control law, in response to rapidly rising housing costs. Other states are watching closely. Young people in Britain raised on budget cuts are rejecting capitalism, exposing the starkest generation gap in the recent history of British politics. PTSD, conspiracy theories and trauma bonding, all for $15 an hour. This story from The Verge goes behind the scenes with the people whose job it is to keep your Facebook feed free of graphic content.____________________No, of course I didnt spend all day googling Lady Gaga and Bradley Cooper. But I am so here for this frame-by-frame breakdown of their Oscar performance._____________________Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world.Is there anything you think were missing? Anything you want to see more of? Wed love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. President Trump discusses pulling out of NATO, Britains Parliament is set to hold a momentous Brexit vote, and American airports are feeling the government shutdown. Heres the latest: On multiple occasions last year, the president said that he wanted to withdraw the U.S. from the 69-year-old North Atlantic Treaty Organization, senior administration officials told our reporters, revealing highly sensitive efforts to preserve the alliance. Such desires underline concerns about Mr. Trumps secretive relationship with Russia and its president, Vladimir Putin. Withdrawing the U.S. from NATO would be a grand victory for Mr. Putin and effectively destroy a 29-country alliance that undergirds the E.U.s security and the world order, and senior administration officials were at first unsure if Mr. Trump was serious. He was, and so his national security team scrambled to run interference and keep the U.S. in. Mr. Trumps belief that NATO is a money-loser appears to be fundamental to his worldview, along with an often-stated desire to seize Iraqs oil, officials said. Reaction: Even discussing the idea of leaving NATO  let alone actually doing so  would be the gift of the century for Putin, said retired Adm. James G. Stavridis, the former supreme allied commander of NATO. He added that withdrawal would be a geopolitical mistake of epic proportion. The British Parliament is gearing up for a critical vote on Prime Minister Theresa Mays Brexit plan  and defeat is so widely expected that Mrs. May has been fighting not to avert a loss but to manage its magnitude.In that vein, the prime minister enlisted fresh assurances from Europes most senior officials and warned again of the dangers of a chaotic no deal withdrawal from the E.U. She also tried to cajole hard-line Brexiteers to support her, even if they hate her plan.The vote could go down as a historically awful defeat  a margin of more than 100 votes would constitute a big loss. Her leadership hangs in the balance.Another angle: Despite predictions that a no-deal Brexit could cause everything from insulin shortages to an 8 percent drop in gross domestic product, many Brexit supporters brush off the fears, even as some of the strongest pro-Brexit voices join in the warnings. More: The vote is expected to take place on Tuesday evening in London. Well have live updates on nytimes.com. Asked to work without pay during a partial government shutdown, one of every 13 airport screeners in the U.S. is now failing to show up, and the countrys airports are beginning to groan. International hubs in Houston and Atlanta closed a number of checkpoints. Canadian air traffic controllers sent their American counterparts hundreds of pizzas as consolation for working without pay.Whats next? Airport security could eventually collapse as workers desert their jobs. But President Trump rejected a proposal to temporarily reopen the government while continuing talks with Democratic lawmakers on funding a wall on the southern border. Response: Senate Republicans are largely standing behind the president, and so are Republican voters, including many federal workers affected by the shutdown. Though Russia decriminalized homosexuality during the breakup of the Soviet Union, the police in the region of Chechnya have periodically detained gay people in extrajudicial arrests, and a new report paints a harrowing picture of a recent crackdown that applied tactics used against Islamist terrorists to round up gay people.Details: Since late last year in Chechnya, two gay men have been killed and about 40 men and women who are either gay or suspected of being gay have been detained in a makeshift prison, according to a rights group, the Russian LGBT Network. Background: Moscow gives Chechnyas regional leader, Ramzan Kadyrov, an Islamist, significant leeway in exchange for loyalty, but international pressure had seemed to tamp down an anti-gay campaign his government began in 2017. Rights activists say they are alarmed by the report of a new crackdown.In Poland: Mayor Pawel Adamowicz of Gdansk, a leading liberal critic of the populist, right-wing national government and a supporter of gay rights, died from his injuries after he was stabbed at a charity event by a man described by the authorities as mentally disturbed. China: A court sentenced a Canadian to death for drug smuggling at a one-day retrial ordered weeks after a Chinese executives arrest in Canada, escalating tensions between the two countries.Saudi Arabia: Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said that he pressed Saudi Arabias crown prince on a number of thorny issues that have weakened the American-Saudi alliance, including the killing of the Saudi dissident Jamal Khashoggi, while affirming a shared goal of opposing Iran. A fractious Middle East means Mr. Pompeo faces major obstacles in trying to form a wider coalition against Iran.Golden jackals: Once barely known in Europe, the species now vastly outnumbers wolves on the Continent, and it is spreading rapidly, capturing scientific interest and forcing Europe to grapple with what the expansion means ecologically. Russia investigation: William Barr, President Trumps nominee for attorney general, told Congress he would allow the special counsel, Robert Mueller, to finish his investigation.Sergei Polunin: Considered by many one of the top male dancers of his generation, he lost an invitation to dance at the Paris Opera, over social media posts that were anti-gay and sexist. U.S. Congress: Representative Steve King of Iowa was denounced by House Republican leaders and removed from two congressional committees after he made comments to The Times questioning why white supremacy is considered offensive.Serena Williams: The tennis star is back in Melbourne for the Australian Open, which she won in 2017 while pregnant. This time, though, the conversation around her threatens to overshadow the tournament itself. Follow along here for the latest from the Open. But why? An image of an egg has become the most liked Instagram post ever. Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Try a tomato-free take on pasta puttanesca, with garlic, anchovies, capers and tuna. (And sign up for Five Weeknight Dishes for more recipes in your inbox.)Tidying up: Heres how you can make some money rather than throwing everything away.Get more sleep on the road: This year, hotels, cruise lines, airports and airlines will furnish amenities to add more shut-eye.Today is the 10th anniversary of a miracle.On Jan. 15, 2009, Capt. Chesley Sullenberger safely ditched his US Airways Airbus A320 in the Hudson River after striking a flock of geese while taking off from New York City.But the so-called Miracle on the Hudson hardly stands alone.In 1982, a British Airways crew glided its Boeing 747 down when volcanic ash clogged all four engines.A Taca pilot landed near New Orleans when his Boeing 737s engines flamed out in a storm in 1988.And a DHL crew survived a missile strike.Soon after taking off on a cargo flight from Baghdad to Bahrain on Nov. 22, 2003, their Airbus A300 was hit by a surface-to-air missile launched by Iraqi insurgents. The damage made its flight controls inoperable.Using only the engines to control the planes direction and altitude, the crew headed back to the airport and landed their aircraft (mostly) on the runway.Wheres their Tom Hanks movie?Zach Wichter wrote todays Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and heres our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Ian Austen and Dan BilefskyKINGSTON, Ontario  A youth was charged on Friday with facilitating a terrorist activity in eastern Ontario and trying to persuade a friend, who is a Syrian refugee, to plant a bomb in a public place. The refugee was released from custody although the possibility of charges against him remain.The youth who was charged was not identified, and the Royal Canadian Mounted Police would not describe him. But the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation and the Canadian Press news agency identified his friend as Hussam Eddin Alzahabi, 20, one of about 52,000 Syrian refugees who have come to Canada.Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, who made the Syrians resettlement a leading priority of his government, faced questions on Friday about Canadas openness toward refugees.With the Syrians arrival, Canadians swiftly embraced a program that allows individuals or groups to bring refugees to their country provided that the Canadians are willing to meet all of their needs for at least one year. While the program is a source of pride for many Canadians, Mr. Trudeaus opponents on the right have long raised concerns that it could leave the country vulnerable.Though little is known about the bomb plot case, it could fuel a right-wing backlash against refugees similar to that in Germany, which has also admitted large numbers of asylum seekers.Conservative Party leaders hope to make Mr. Trudeaus immigration policies an issue in this years parliamentary elections, and this episode may give them an opening.Although he did not mention Mr. Alzahabi by name or discuss his background, Andrew Scheer, the Conservative leader, said in a statement that the arrests made it clear that Canadas refugee screening process needs to be seriously examined.Weve recently learned of several examples of dangerous individuals entering the country due in part to lax screening procedures, Mr. Scheer said.Ralph Goodale, Mr. Trudeaus public safety minister, dismissed the opposition leaders remarks.Somehow he already knows or is presuming the result of a police investigation, Mr. Goodale told reporters. Lets get the facts on the table and then well determine the appropriate course of action.Even by the Mounties tight-lipped standards, remarkably few facts were released on Friday about the plot and the people the police said had originated it.At a news conference, an official of the Mounties, Chief Superintendent Michael LeSage, said that the national police force had received a tip from the F.B.I. in late December that a terror plot was underway in Kingston. About 300 people and a special, low-flying surveillance airplane  which provoked curiosity and irritation among many people in the city  were brought in to aid in the investigation.Superintendent Peter Lambertucci of the Mounties, who heads one of its counterterrorism units in Ottawa, said that while Mr. Alzahabi and his friend had developed an attack plan, they had no target or date. And while the police seized materials that could be components for a bomb, they said the two had not built one. The police would not answer questions about a possible motive or ideology fueling the plot.Canadas welcoming attitude toward refugees from Syrias civil war, which is approaching its eighth year, became a powerful symbol of its openness as a country.In 2017, Mr. Trudeau famously wrote a tweet saying that Canada was ready to welcome those fleeing persecution, terror & war. It came after President Trump moved to ban travelers from several Muslim-majority countries and seemed calculated to present liberal Canadas embrace of refugees as a counterpoint to the attitude of the Trump administration.A group of four churches in Kingston sponsored Mr. Alzahabis family, said Alex Pierson, the executive director of the Anglican Diocese of Ontario. Citing privacy reasons, he declined to say when the family arrived, other than that it was more than a year ago.An annual report for one of the churches indicates that Mr. Alzahabi arrived from Kuwait with his father, Amin Alzahabi, his mother and three siblings after their home in Damascus, Syria, was destroyed. Amin Alzahabi, the report said, had been jailed for political reasons and would be vulnerable to arrest and extreme measures should he and the family return home.A joint statement by the Anglican and Roman Catholic Churches said that they supported the police in the investigation and that our concerns, thoughts and prayers are for Kingston and the surrounding area, the faith communities involved, the family and all those affected by this unfortunate situation.Amin Alzahabi told the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation that his son liked Canada and the safety it brought the family, and he rejected the idea that his son was plotting an attack.I trust my son, he told the broadcaster, I know he cannot do anything against any human.A 2018 government report on terrorist threats to Canada said that the main one stemmed from individuals or groups inspired by the Islamic State or Al Qaeda. The country was also concerned with threats posed by right-wing extremists.Since October 2014, Canadas national terrorism threat level has remained at medium, meaning that a violent act of terrorism could occur. Mr. Goodale, the public safety minister, said on Thursday that the latest arrests had not changed that designation.Follow Ian Austen and Dan Bilefsky on Twitter: @ianrausten and @DanBilefsky.Ian Austen reported from Kingston, Ontario, and Dan Bilefsky from Montreal.Advertisement"
Paul Manaforts Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dads Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: Coal Mining Isnt Coming BackHouse Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab SpringCan The President Be Impeached? We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season
"AdvertisementSupported byGood Monday. Want this by email? Sign up here.Bipartisan negotiations to forge a border security deal broke down yesterday, potentially setting up the federal government for another shutdown ahead of a Friday deadline.What happened? The impasse appears to center on Democratic demands for a limit on the number of unauthorized immigrants already in the country who could be detained by Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers, according to aides familiar with the talks, according to the NYT. Republicans wanted an exception to the cap for criminals; Democrats said a proposed 16,500-bed cap left more than enough room for them.Whats at stake? The last shutdown, the longest in U.S. history, cost the American economy $11 billion and tanked President Trumps political standing with the public. Another shutdown could cause more economic harm, hitting the I.R.S. just as tax season starts.Whats next? Lawmakers could pass another short-term spending bill, though many are reluctant to punt on a final budget agreement again. Meanwhile, Mr. Trump is preparing to hold a rally for supporters in El Paso. (Many in the city arent happy with that.) But he really has only two choices, according to Axios: shut down the government or declare a national emergency to get border wall money, and both options are horrible.The Amazon founder risked embarrassment by going public with what he said was an extortion attempt by The National Enquirer. So far, hes scoring big points (Saturday Night Live jokes aside).His disclosure has gotten results. Federal prosecutors are reviewing his extortion claim, the NYT reports, citing unnamed sources. If The Enquirers parent company broke the law, it would be in violation of a nonprosecution agreement over its paying hush money to help President Trump in 2016. (A lawyer for the publishers chairman said yesterday that the company committed no crime.)And hes winning the P.R. battle. At a time when billionaires are reviled, Maureen Dowd of the NYT writes, the richest dude on earth has managed to come through a traumatic week inspiring admiration. (Glenn Greenwald of The Intercept counters that it would be odd for Mr. Bezos to gain pity, given that Amazon is a critical partner for the U.S. government in building an ever-more invasive, militarized and sprawling surveillance state.)Where did The Enquirer go wrong? Danny Westneat of The Seattle Times points out that it picked a fight with the head of a company so powerful that it got Seattle to change its tax policies and won $3 billion in tax incentives from New York for office space. You dont pressure Amazon. It only goes the other way around, Mr. Westneat writes.But Mr. Bezos could still lose. Jon Swartz of Barrons notes that Amazon shares fell 2.6 percent on Friday. His hands-on management is considered crucial to the success of the company and anything that pulls his attention away from day-to-day management is at least a concern for investors, Mr. Swartz writes.Fears that Britains withdrawal from the E.U. could roil economies have now officially spread across the Atlantic.Wall Street has been warned about Brexits impact. With less than seven weeks to go before the U.K. is due to leave the E.U., several S&P 500 groups have for the first time put Wall Street on formal notice of the risks should London and Brussels fail to reach a divorce deal, the FT reports. Companies like Lockheed Martin, McCormick, Expedia and Cadbury have all spoken out.Driving the concern are fears that a depressed pound could make American goods unaffordable in Britain, while the costs of imported British goods could rise. Theres also a fear about the broader effect of Brexit on global political and economic stability.American banks are also nervous. While U.S. banks want Britain to maintain the closest possible ties with the EU after Brexit, U.K. banks and insurers are anxious they dont become beholden to new laws made by Brussels, Bloomberg reports.More Brexit news: The E.U.s chief Brexit negotiator, Michel Barnier, said that he will not reopen the existing Brexit deal, but is open to reworking the political declaration that accompanies it. The British government is trying to secure an extra two weeks in which to win concessions from Europe by promising lawmakers another vote on Britains withdrawal options. And Prime Minister Theresa May has also offered concessions to the opposing Labour Party to break the current impasse in Parliament.Americans are getting a rude surprise: Their refunds appear to be getting smaller, despite President Trump and Republicans passing a huge set of tax cuts over a year ago.How big is the drop? The average refund of $1,865 was 8.4 percent smaller than the average refund in the period last year, Reuters reports, citing figures from the I.R.S. Heather Long of the WaPo adds that the number of people receiving a refund has fallen by nearly 25 percent so far. (The I.R.S. warns not to read too much into the figures, because this is just part of the data  a result of delayed processing due to the government shutdown.)Why is this happening? Its not actually a sign that Americans are paying more in taxes. People generally got a piece of their tax cut last year gradually in the form of lower withholding on their paychecks, Joseph Rosenberg of the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center told the WaPo.People are angry nonetheless. The WaPo reports: People have already taken to social media, using the hashtag #GOPTaxScam, to vent their anger. Many blame President Trump and the Republicans for shrinking refunds. Some on Twitter even said they wouldnt vote for Trump again after seeing their refunds slashed.The last class of tech companies that gained valuations of over $1 billion, including Uber and Airbnb, remade entire industries. Dont expect the next wave to be nearly as flashy, according to Erin Griffith of the NYT.Who are they? They have names like Benchling, Checkr and Zola, and many create software for specific industries  including data analysis systems for farmers and background checks for gig workers.Why arent they as exciting as their predecessors? Ms. Griffith points out that Uber, Airbnb and their peers built global empires by simply taking existing businesses  like taxis, food delivery and hotels  and making them mobile. Easy opportunities to disrupt traditional businesses have dried up, forcing new companies to find smaller niches.But dont underestimate their potential. Maybe its not as sexy as the companies in the first wave, the venture capitalist Kirsten Green conceded to the NYT. But Anand Sanwal of the data provider CB Insights said they were still growing fast, adding, If you are one of those high-momentum companies, investors are going to be beating down your door because there is so much interest in investing in the next big winner.Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, warned yesterday of a global economy that is growing more slowly than we had anticipated.She sees four big risks. Trade tensions and tariff escalations, financial tightening, uncertainty related to Brexit outcome and spillover impact and an accelerated slowdown of the Chinese economy are all clouds on the horizon, she told the World Government Summit in Dubai.And they could spell trouble. When there are too many clouds, she added, it takes just one lighting bolt to start the storm.But the I.M.F. thinks the Fed is playing smart. The fact that the Fed has put a pause on raising rates is going to provide a lot of support to the economy, Gita Gopinath, the I.M.F.s top economist, told the FT. We endorse the Fed view of having a data-driven approach.President Trump is expected to sign an executive order today meant to spur the development and regulation of artificial intelligence, Cade Metz of the NYT writes.The news: Mr. Trump is to introduce the American A.I. Initiative, which aims to better educate workers in the field, improve access to the cloud computing services and data needed to build A.I. systems, and promote cooperation with foreign powers.Context: A.I. experts across industry, academia and government have long called on the Trump administration to make the development of artificial intelligence a major priority, Mr. Metz writes, adding that they are concerned that China could surpass the United States in the development of such technologies.But: The order does not set aside funds for A.I. research and development, Mr. Metz adds, and the administration provided few details on how it will put its new policies into effect.Steve Mandel has stepped down as the head of the hedge fund Lone Pine Capital.Among the reasons Santander rescinded its offer to hire the investment banker Andrea Orcel? Reportedly his desire to attend the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.Kristina Salen, a former chief financial officer of the shopping site Etsy, has joined Moda Operandi, a luxury fashion start-up, as its C.F.O.The English Premier League is looking to America for a successor to its C.E.O., Richard Scudamore. British candidates appear uninterested in the job.Deals The aluminum-parts maker Arconic plans to break itself up. (WSJ) Apollo Global Management is reportedly near a deal to buy Cox Enterprisess 14 regional TV stations for about $3 billion. (Reuters) The medical equipment maker Smith & Nephew reportedly held talks to buy NuVasive, a maker of medical instruments for spinal surgeries, for more than $3 billion. (FT) TPG Capital closed its seventh Asia-focused private equity fund at over $4.6 billion. (Reuters)Politics and policy Democratic lawmakers are proposing steep new taxes on the superrich  and the public loves it. (NYT) Senator Michael Bennet, Democrat of Colorado and a potential presidential candidate, says that cutting private health insurance as part of Medicare for all is a bad opening offer. (Politico) President Trump succeeded in dividing Democrats by warning about socialism. (Hill) The biggest star of Clive Daviss exclusive pre-Grammys gala? Speaker Nancy Pelosi. (AP)Trade Trade talks between the U.S. and China resume today in Beijing. (Straits Times) White House officials have reportedly discussed a summit meeting between President Trump and President Xi Jinping of China at Mar-a-Lago next month to resolve the trade fight. (Axios) The trade agreement to replace Nafta faces an uphill climb in Congress. (Axios)Tech Some Amazon executives are reportedly reconsidering the decision to set up a campus in New York, but opponents think that might be a bluff. (WSJ, Recode) Huawei has threatened to sue the Czech Republic if the countrys cybersecurity agency does not rescind a warning about the risk the company poses to the nations critical infrastructure. (NYT) Sprint accused AT&T of false advertising, saying that its rival is incorrectly telling customers that they are receiving 5G data service. (WSJ) Tesla may finally be delivering Model 3s, but now it cant keep up with servicing them. (WSJ)Best of the rest A new activist hedge fund, Impactive Capital, is a rarity: Its female- and minority-led. (WSJ) Household staples, from diapers to baking soda, may get more expensive. (WSJ) U.S. colleges raised $46.7 billion in the year that ended last June, led by Harvard with $1.4 billion. (Bloomberg) Heres a rundown of the 100 most sustainable U.S. companies, according to Barrons. (Barrons) How the Feds recent U-turn on rates cascaded through global markets. (NYT)Thanks for reading! Well see you tomorrow.Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"in her wordsIn the wake of a mass shooting, New Zealands prime minister has drawn international praise for mixing empathy with swift, concrete action.CreditCreditAndrea VenturaSupported byBy Maya SalamYoure reading In Her Words, where women rule the headlines. Sign up here to get it delivered to your inbox. Let me know what you think at dearmaya@nytimes.com.It takes strength to be an empathetic leader. Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern, of New Zealand, whos been guiding her country through a crisis after a mass shooting last weekIn the hours after the shooting, she wore a black head scarf while comforting victims families, embracing and grieving alongside them. When President Trump asked her what he could to to help, she responded: Sympathy and love for all Muslim communities.And on Wednesday, just six days after a man gunned down worshipers in two New Zealand mosques, killing 50, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern made a swift gesture: banning military-style semiautomatic weapons.We are one, they are us, she said of her countrys Muslims, many of whom are migrants or refugees. That unifying cry has become a symbol of her response. In the aftermath of the massacre, Ardern has strayed from the usual post-attack script  drawing international praise for her ability to mix empathy with concrete action, shaping her path as a compassionate but defiant and decisive leader. Ardern, 38, the youngest female world leader, has set high benchmarks for messaging and leadership during this crisis, Sushil Aaron, a New Zealand-based journalist, wrote in a Times Op-Ed this week.Her plan for immediate policy changes stands in stark contrast to the stalemate and resistance to change that has stymied similar calls for restrictions on firearms in the United States, Damien Cave, The Timess Sydney bureau chief, and Charlotte Graham-McLay reported from Christchurch, where the attack took place.In her address to Parliament this week, Ardern opened with the Arabic greeting as-salamu alaykum, meaning peace be upon you. She continued by calling the shooting a terrorist act  and by refusing to speak the suspected shooters name. He is a terrorist, she said of the man, who had espoused white supremacist ideology. He is a criminal. He is an extremist. But he will, when I speak, be nameless.Meanwhile, Ardern confirmed that victims and their families would receive financial assistance from the New Zealand government, and she called for a global effort to eradicate right-wing extremism. We cannot think about this in terms of boundaries, she said.It didnt take long for leaders across party lines and around the world to recognize and applaud Arderns approach. She has won the hearts of Pakistanis for her compassion and for her leadership, Mohammad Faisal, the spokesman for Pakistans Foreign Ministry, wrote on Twitter. The mayor of London, Sadiq Khan, recalled that, in a visit to his city last year, Ardern had stressed the importance of inclusivity and equality in society.Even Judith Collins, a New Zealand politician and an opponent of Arderns party, called the prime ministers work outstanding and praised her for wearing a head scarf. It is a mark of respect, Collins said. I thought it was the right thing to do. Sign up here to get In Her Words delivered to your inbox!______Here are five articles from The Times you might have missed.Women with axes. During WWII, lumberjills were Rosie the Riveters counterparts across the Atlantic. They harvested timber for telegraph poles, rails for D-Day splashdowns and the pit props that bulwarked vital British coal mines. [Read the story] When I was coming up, there were very few women in leadership positions, and very few women of color. The top ranks of American theater have long been occupied by white men. Thats changing. [Read the story]The evidence here is there likely are biological effects of prenatal testosterone. Research shows that women with a twin brother are more likely to face penalties at school and work. [Read the story]First: Sandra Day OConnor. A new book offers an intimate portrait of OConnor, the first woman on the Supreme Court. [Read the story] The real solution is to properly punish these crimes. Serial sex offenders are a big problem on New York City subways. Should they be banned for life? [Read the story]______Isabella Goodwin was New York Citys first female police detective. She went undercover in 1912 to expose a bank robber who went by Eddie (The Boob) Kinsman. With that, Goodwin became known as the best known woman sleuth in the United States. By the 1920s, she was helping to oversee the newly created Womens Bureau, which handled cases involving sex workers, runaways, truants and victims of domestic violence. Today, women detectives make up around 2 percent of New York Citys 36,500-member police force. Learn more about Isabella Goodwin here.Sign up here to get future installments of In Her Words delivered to your inbox. Read past articles here. Advertisement"
"Advertisement

      Compiled by NATALIE PROULX

MARCH 5, 2019

The image above is related to one of the news stories we followed last week. Do you know what it shows? At the bottom of this quiz, youll find the answer.Have you been paying attention to the news recently? See how many of these 10 questions you can get right.President Trumps longtime fixer and personal lawyer, , accused him at a daylong hearing before the House Oversight Committee on Feb. 27 of an expansive pattern of lies and criminality, offering a damning portrayal of life inside the presidents orbit, where advisers sacrifice integrity for proximity to power.Donald F. McGahn IIMichael D. CohenPaul ManafortRudolph W. GiulianiThe United States and North Korea offered conflicting accounts and traded blame on Feb. 28 after a second summit meeting between President Trump and the Norths leader, Kim Jong-un, ended abruptly without any agreement on  or easing tensions on the Korean Peninsula.climate change policyending the trade warhow to defeat ISISnuclear disarmament A new four-hour documentary, Leaving Neverland, showing on HBO in two parts on March 3 and 4, focuses on the wrenching testimony of two men, Wade Robson and James Safechuck, who say  sexually abused them for years, starting when they were young boys. Harvey WeinsteinLouis C.K.Michael Jackson Robert KellyOn Feb. 27,  and Indian fighter jets engaged in a skirmish over Indian-controlled territory in the disputed border state of Jammu and Kashmir. At least one Indian jet was shot down, with  capturing its pilot.Afghan; AfghanistanChinese; ChinaPakistani; PakistanNepali; NepalThe House voted on Feb. 26 to overturn President Trumps , with just 13 Republicans joining Democrats to try to block his effort to  without congressional approval.ban on most transgender people from serving in the military; redefine military policyban on travel from several predominantly Muslim countries; reshape the way that the United States controls its borders declaration of a national emergency on the Mexican border; divert funding to a border walltariffs on Chinese agricultural and energy goods; escalate a trade warAs search-and-rescue workers raced on March 4 to help the rural Alabama communities that had been ravaged by  a day earlier, officials said that at least three children were among the 23 people killed by the natural disaster.a hurricaneearthquakesfirestornadoesThe chairman of the House Judiciary Committee delivered a flurry of document demands to the executive branch and the broader Trump world on March 4 that detailed the breadth of the  investigation into possible obstruction of justice, corruption and abuse of power by President Trump and his administration.Democrats Federal Bureau of InvestigationsRepublicansSupreme CourtsOn Feb. 28, Bryce Harper became the latest in a string of players to set a new salary standard, reaching a free-agent deal with the Philadelphia Phillies for 13 years and , the most ever guaranteed to a baseball player.$11 million$90 million$170 million$330 millionPresident Trump ordered his chief of staff to grant his son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner,  last year, overruling concerns flagged by intelligence officials and the White Houses top lawyer, four people briefed on the matter said.a presidential pardona top-secret security clearanceimmunity from prosecutionUnited States citizenshipThree of the education-related articles below were recently published in The New York Times. One is from the satirical site The Onion. Which is the fake news story?As Students Struggle With Stress and Depression, Colleges Act as CounselorsHow Much Wealthier Are White School Districts Than Nonwhite Ones? $23 Billion, Report SaysReport: Students Who Take Latin Have Better Chance of Summoning Demon Later in LifeWest Virginia Teachers Walk Out (Again) and Score a Win in HoursAdvertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Astead W. HerndonCOLUMBIA, S.C.  The gym was hot. The lights malfunctioned. But the audience of nearly 1,000 people was engrossed as Senator Elizabeth Warren, the Massachusetts Democrat and presidential hopeful, did what she does best: nerd out, as she puts it.After talking up gun control laws and criminal justice reform on a recent South Carolina campaign swing, Ms. Warren dug into the nitty-gritty of free market regulation and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, a federal agency she helped create, which has returned more than $12 billion to people in refunds and canceled debts. Nothing made her more enthusiastic.By the end, she had many in the audience cheering.You may leave here and say, Oh my gosh, I must be turning into a nerd, I was applauding a government agency  how did that happen? Ms. Warren joked with the crowd at Columbia College in South Carolina.[Follow the Democratic presidential field with our new candidate tracker]Almost one month into her presidential campaign, Ms. Warrens passion for policy minutiae has become her way of standing out in an increasingly crowded Democratic field, establishing herself as a wonks wonk whose expansive ideas and detail-oriented speaking style are her bid for a good first impression on voters. While other Democrats have focused on sweeping themes of unity or change, as Senator Kamala Harris of California did on Sunday at a campaign kickoff rally, Ms. Warren is making a personal and political wager that audiences care more about policy savvy than captivating oration.It is a bet intended to draw contrasts with President Trump, who rarely delves into policy, but also to put pressure on Democratic rivals. In what promises to be a nomination contest featuring many candidates with broadly similar ideologies, a strategy of highlighting even the smallest differences in policy could pay off, especially with liberal voters who want firm and thorough positions rather than squishy generalities that could be setups for compromise.There will be a lot of diagnosing of problems in the Trump era, and its important to have a Democratic candidate who has the correct diagnosis of a fundamentally corrupt economic and political system, said Adam Green, co-founder of the Progressive Change Campaign Committee, which has been openly supportive of Ms. Warren. But voters  especially voters in Iowa, New Hampshire and other states that have the ability to get to know these candidates well  they want to hear real solutions, and that means a certain level of detail and not just platitudes.On one level Ms. Warren is running as herself: a former Harvard law professor who likes getting into the weeds of policy. She is also trying to avoid the political trap of adopting a poll-tested, all-things-to-all-people persona and coming off as inauthentic. But some Democrats say she runs the risk of being seen as out of touch and too intellectual and offbeat.Patrick Morgan, a Nebraska resident who attended Ms. Warrens recent event in Council Bluffs, Iowa, said he wished she had more charisma and energy. David Briggs, who attended a Warren event in Des Moines, said he worried about her ability to go beyond traditional issues and inspire the country.Id love for her to just go straight into office, but I worry she cant bring people together and beat the Republican Party, Mr. Briggs said.Ms. Warrens political strategists believe that after years of Mr. Trumps leaning on catchphrases and easy-to-digest proposals like build the wall, Democrats want a nominee who articulates a detailed vision for America. They point to the 2018 midterm elections, where several successful Democratic candidates talked at length about issues and tried to engage voters directly by their favorite means: streaming themselves on Instagram Live in some cases, expounding on bankruptcy law in others.The way Ms. Warren talks, she lets voters know shes not just blowing hot air, said Ben Wikler, Washington director for the liberal group MoveOn. She has her arms totally wrapped around the problems shes discussing.Theres an adage in comedy that you want jokes that reward the people who get them, but dont punish the people who dont, Mr. Wikler added. Policy details in politics works the same way. What Warren is great at is digging into legislative numbers without making peoples eyes glaze over.Her approach is on display during the question-and-answer portion of Ms. Warrens events, which is a hallmark of each campaign stop and relies on a lottery system instead of prescreening questions. The result: extended riffs about Puerto Rican debt restructuring, the history of denying black Americans access to mortgage subsidies, renewable energy policies like net metering and the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 2018.You want me to get this crowd up on net metering? Ms. Warren called out to a New Hampshire audience this month, referring to a system in which solar panels or other green energy generators are connected to a public-utility power grid. Do I have any net metering wonks out here? Im a big believer in net metering.In another question-and-answer moment in Des Moines, a man named Jeffrey Goetz thanked Ms. Warren for her longtime scholarship around bankruptcy law.Im a bankruptcy practitioner, Chapter 11. Thank you for sponsoring the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 2018, Mr. Goetz said.Yes, its a nerd thing, Ms. Warren responded, drawing laughter from the crowd.Its a nerd thing, Mr. Goetz agreed. Its absolutely a nerd thing.By playing up her instincts as a wonk, Ms. Warren is trying to define herself and her candidacy on her own terms before Democratic rivals try to cast her in a more unflattering light. Past presidential candidates in both parties have grappled with this.Republicans and Democrats alike tried to portray Hillary Clinton as inauthentic in her 2016 and 2008 runs for president, invoking her paid speeches to Wall Street firms and her earlier vote in support of the Iraq war. And many of Republicans who ran in 2016 also struggled to define themselves and not have Mr. Trump do the job for them; his pejorative nicknames for rivals like Low Energy Jeb Bush, Lyin Ted and Liddle Marco did political damage.Mr. Trump is already trying to do the same to Ms. Warren by slurring her as Pocahontas and casting her as too liberal for the American electorate. But her tendency to embrace her inner wonk predates that nickname and is not a newly conjured attempt to push back at him.Ms. Warren was the first major candidate to enter the presidential race and begin touring early primary states, and it remains to be seen which of her fellow Democratic candidates will prioritize laying out a policy-driven vision for voters to latch onto and which will ground their candidacy on their supposed ability to beat Mr. Trump.Senator Bernie Sanders, the Vermont independent who is considering a second presidential run, upended the Democratic Party by running in 2016 on bold promises such as single-payer health insurance and tuition-free college, yet he rarely strays from his favored set of issues. Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., also considering a 2020 run, has so far grounded his pitch to voters in electability, telling one Democrat, I dont see the candidate who can clearly do what has to be done to win.Even a fresh national face like Ms. Harris, who announced her presidential candidacy last week, has taken a more cautious approach to campaigning at her first three events. On Friday, Ms. Harris spoke at a ticketed gala for members of her collegiate sorority, she hosted a kickoff rally in Oakland on Sunday afternoon and she is set to participate in a CNN-moderated town-hall-style meeting in Iowa on Monday night.Faiz Shakir, national political director for the American Civil Liberties Union, said candidates would be wise to mimic Ms. Warrens willingness to focus on policy. On Thursday, Ms. Warren announced a plan that would impose a new annual tax on the 75,000 wealthiest families in the United States. The proposal would raise $2.75 trillion in tax revenue over a decade, according to calculations by Emmanuel Saez and Gabriel Zucman, two University of California-Berkeley economists who consulted with Ms. Warren on the plan.Elizabeth Warren is trying to position herself as the ideas candidate of the field, and thus far, in the early going, shes winning that, Mr. Shakir said. Others should start thinking about competing in the arena for new ideas.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily FlitterThe economic uncertainty that roiled the stock market at the end of 2018 hurt Citigroups trading business, the bank said on Monday, as a busy week of quarterly earnings reports by the countrys largest banks got off to a shaky start.Citi said it had almost a half-billion dollars less in revenue in the years fourth quarter than analysts had expected. The cause of the drop, the bank said, was an unexpectedly sharp decline in revenue from trading in government bonds, foreign currencies and other fixed income products as falling stock prices spooked investors.Investors have fretted for the past several months over the Federal Reserves next moves and President Trumps unpredictable trade tariff announcements. Those concerns are not likely to dissipate, and Citis chief executive, Michael Corbat, said they could eventually be more of a drag on the economy than actual policy changes.Right now, we see the biggest risk in the global economy as one of talking ourselves into a recession, Mr. Corbat said in a conference call with analysts.Still, Citi warned that monetary and trade policies could affect its performance in the future.The banks chief financial officer, John Gerspach, said in a call with reporters that continuing uncertainty about how various countries central banks will carry out plans to drain excess cash from the global financial system and about the Trump administrations protracted trade war with China risked hurting the American economy in the second half of this year or early in 2020.Citi recorded $17.1 billion in revenue for the quarter, compared with the $17.6 billion expected by analysts. The deficit did not indicate major problems for the bank, but it showed that, however vague, investors worries about the future can have a measurable impact on a big corporations results.[Read more about the key factors affecting stocks and the economy.]Furious activity in the financial markets can sometimes help companies that are close to Wall Street by generating more business for them, but Citis clients opted to hold tight as stocks began to drop in September, Mr. Gerspach said.Clients  investors and corporate clients  waited on the sidelines, he said.Citi customers, Mr. Gerspach said, did not ask the bank to make many trades on their behalf because they were waiting for clearer market conditions that never came.In December, they got worse, he said.As a result, Citis fixed income trading revenue for the fourth quarter was down 21 percent from the same period a year earlier and 39 percent below the results for the third quarter of 2018.The banks performance in other areas was solid. Loans and deposits ticked up again, and Citi said the administrations corporate tax cuts had been slightly better for its balance sheet than originally estimated. Citi shares were up nearly 4 percent in trading Monday.Citigroup was the first of the countrys major banks to report fourth-quarter results. JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo will issue their reports on Tuesday, with Bank of America, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley set to do so on Wednesday.Advertisement"
"A generation after apartheid, the Stellenbosch region is gripped by a struggle that pits white citizens who still control much of the economy against their black neighbors.A settlement of shacks on a section of Stefan Smits farm, which has become the focus of a bitter political fight.CreditCreditJoao Silva/The New York TimesSupported byBy Selam Gebrekidan and Norimitsu OnishiSTELLENBOSCH, South Africa  One cold morning, Stefan Smit, a white farmer in South Africas stunning wine region, woke up to find his vineyard under siege.Anxious and angry, Mr. Smit, 62, drove his pickup truck to the highest point on his estate and peered down. Impoverished residents from the black township next door had stormed the land, clearing weeds and erecting 40 shacks in a matter of hours.I, personally, cant breathe here, Mr. Smit said later.Virtually overnight, Mr. Smits farm, with its sweeping views of the Stellenbosch region, became a battleground in a bitter political fight that has split the nation and reached all the way to the Trump White House: Who should own South Africas land?The fight pits white South Africans, who still control much of the economy a generation after the end of apartheid, directly against their black neighbors, many of whom are struggling to acquire a tiny patch on which to build a shack.A recent government survey found that white farmers like Mr. Smit control nearly 70 percent of farms held by individual owners in South Africa. And the figure does not even include land held by companies and trusts, which account for the largest share of privately owned land in the country.Residents of a black township took over a private wine farm in Stellenbosch, South Africa.Before the takeoverAfter the takeoverStefan Smits private farmKayamandiSquatters shacksMar. 28, 2018Aug. 30, 2018Before the takeoverAfter the takeoverStefan Smits private farmKayamandiSquatters shacksMar. 28, 2018Aug. 30, 2018Before the takeoverStefan Smits private farmKayamandiMar. 28, 2018After the takeoverSquatters shacksAug. 30, 2018Sources: CapeFarmMapper, Western Cape Department of Agriculture.In this fabled corner of South Africa, where Americans and other foreigners come to taste chenin blanc and pinotage, white farmers like Mr. Smit have been trying to hold on to a part of the country they consider their historic domain.He and his white Afrikaner friends call it an invasion, part of a calculated effort by the governing African National Congress to capture the only province that remains out of its political control.People are being brought from other parts of the country just to create a voting bloc, said Jan de Klerk, a friend of Mr. Smits and a son of F.W. de Klerk, the former president who negotiated the end of apartheid with Nelson Mandela. Its not skills coming into the town. Its basically just people coming in, and theres no room.The squatters say they moved in out of desperation. Life had barely changed for the men and women in the neighboring township, even a quarter-century after achieving democracy. They still lived in flimsy shacks in cramped quarters, while Mr. Smit and his friends hold vast tracts of land brutally snatched from African inhabitants generations ago and deliberately kept in white hands for decades to come.The monopolies go far beyond private estates. Nearly 80 of the farms in Stellenbosch sit on public land. And most of them are locked in 50-year leases that local authorities signed with white farmers in the early 1990s, right before the end of apartheid, in exchange for private investments in water infrastructure, according to confidential municipal audits obtained by The New York Times.The arrangements have enabled the farmers to maintain control of large stretches of public land long after the arrival of democracy.We see that land, we must take that land, said Zola Ndlasi, 44, the man who led the takeover, as he walked among the new shacks. Because he came from the same region as Mr. Mandela, everyone called him by the same clan name, Madiba.With only a few months to go before elections, this elemental struggle  over who owns South Africa  is playing out on a national level.Many black South Africans feel betrayed by the failure of the A.N.C., riddled with corruption, to provide access to land for the black majority.The A.N.C. has tried  halfheartedly, critics say  to redistribute some of it, but the party has failed repeatedly, angering black residents all the more. One A.N.C. program purchased land from willing white farmers, but was so tainted by corruption that politicians ended up with more land than the ordinary citizens who were supposed to benefit.In recent years, an A.N.C. spinoff, the Economic Freedom Fighters, has tapped into this anger by calling on black South Africans to take land on their own.Having lost some of his partys core supporters, President Cyril Ramaphosa, the A.N.C. leader, is now also pushing to change the Constitution to allow the expropriation of land without compensation.But eager to avoid international ire, Mr. Ramaphosa said during the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, in January that his country would handle land reform in a manner that takes the interests of all into account.We are not going to allow land grabs in South Africa, Mr. Ramaphosa said.Many are deeply skeptical of his promises, warning of the seizure of white-owned farms that turned Zimbabwe, South Africas next-door neighbor, into an international pariah.President Trump waded into the dispute last year, echoing false or exaggerated allegations that white farmers were being forced off their land by the government and killed in large numbers. The presidents statement was a boon for AfriForum, a far-right group that advocates for Afrikaners like Mr. Smit and enjoys popular support here in Stellenbosch.south africaCape TownKayamandiStellenboschFalseBaybotsWANAWalker BayNAM.JohannesburglesothosouthafricaArea ofdetail20 Miles200 MilesBy The New York TimesContrary to the claims, the law has sided with Mr. Smit. A judge ordered the squatters to vacate the farm, but most of the shacks have remained while the decision is being appealed. Now, the municipality is negotiating with Mr. Smit to buy the plot.The case has reverberated far beyond Stellenbosch because of the towns singular place in South Africas past, present and future.Long before the region became famous for its wines, Stellenbosch University, an elite institution that until recently taught mostly in Afrikaans, produced many of apartheids leading politicians and thinkers  so much so that Stellenbosch is often called the cradle of apartheid.Many executives of white-led companies have moved to town in the past two decades, leading critics of the nations enduring economic inequality to joke about political leaders taking orders from Stellenbosch.It is a retreat, a redoubt, said Jannie Gagiano, who taught political science at Stellenbosch University.Stellenbosch is also home to a neighborhood that tourists almost never see: a black township called Kayamandi, groaning under a fast-growing population and squeezed into some of the most crowded blocks in this part of South Africa. Kayamandi abuts a handful of wineries, some separated by high barbed-wire and electrified fences.Newcomers arrive every day to Kayamandi, mostly from the impoverished Eastern Cape Province. The steady migration has made black South Africans the biggest racial group in Stellenbosch, outnumbering whites and people of mixed race, according to a 2016 population survey.To Mr. Smit and his friends, the changing demographics support their suspicions that the recent seizure was orchestrated by the nations leaders. Black voters are likely to back the A.N.C., while white and mixed-race South Africans tend to vote for another party, the Democratic Alliance, in this part of South Africa.They bring the people down like fodder, Mr. Smit said of the A.N.C.Unlike his more famous namesake, Mr. Ndlasi  or Madiba to the squatters  does not dream of a rainbow nation.Mr. Ndlasi worked as a laborer for white businesses, then started organizing newcomers so desperate for housing that they rent shacks behind government-built homes. Writing letters and leading meetings, he pressed the municipality to build housing.Last May, he led the first push into Mr. Smits farm. Men from the township built half a dozen shacks. Mr. Smit quickly obtained an eviction order and the Red Ants  demolishers named after their red overalls  dismantled the shacks and carted them away.Shacks appeared overnight on Mr. Smits farm in late July, and within a month, nearly 1,000 were spread across his plots.Before the takeoverAfter the takeoverplot 3plot 2KayamandiSquatters shacksStefan Smits private farmplot 1Mar. 28, 2018Aug. 30, 2018After the takeoverBefore the takeoverplot 3plot 2Kayamandiplot 1Squatters shacksStefan Smits private farmMar. 28, 2018Aug. 30, 2018plot 3Kayamandiplot 2plot 1Stefan Smits private farmBefore the takeoverMar. 28, 2018Squatters shacksAfter the takeoverAug. 30, 2018Sources: CapeFarmMapper, Western Cape Department of Agriculture.When angry protesters faced off with the Red Ants, Mr. Ndlasi was arrested for inciting violence, spending three nights in jail.We are not fighting him, Mr. Ndlasi said of Mr. Smit. We can be friends if he dont have that white attitude. Maybe he can think hes better than us.Mr. Ndlasi and other organizers then contacted a lawyer who told them about a local law: The squatters could not be evicted without a court order if they had lived in the shacks for two days or more.So one night last July, Mr. Ndlasi led men and women up the hill again.When the Red Ants came back a few days later, they faced an angry resistance. The police fired tear gas and pepper-sprayed the protesters.Lubabalo Mpiliso, 20, had built all but the roof of his shack. He hurled rocks but watched helplessly as the Red Ants ripped apart his zinc sheets and wooden frames. Undeterred, he patched together a new shack days later.If I build a house, then I will leave this for my children, said Mr. Mpiliso, who had been living in a two-bedroom government house with 10 members of his family.The municipality of Stellenbosch acknowledges a housing shortage in Kayamandi, which had more than 7,000 shacks before the push into Mr. Smits farm. But while the town has resources to deal with the problem  it owns scores of farms  critics say its leaders are reluctant to build homes for fear of losing control of City Hall, especially with the arrival of black newcomers unlikely to vote for them.Municipal officials dismissed the allegation as absolutely untrue, countering that the squatters are trying to jump ahead of a long line of people waiting for housing.People just take land because they know what the political fight is, said Wilhelmina Petersen, a municipal council speaker who belongs to the Democratic Alliance, which controls most of the town. They test the country.Mr. Ndlasi, too, is trying to gauge the political winds. He is quick to recount the corrupt ways of the A.N.C. and is waiting to see how many voters will break for the Economic Freedom Fighters in this years elections.But he is also getting pointers from a local A.N.C. leader, Midas Wanana, 43. During an interview, Mr. Wanana talked about making Mr. Ndlasi the face of the A.N.C. in the next elections.We want to put him in front, Mr. Wanana said. He is a hero.Across the hill, Mr. Smit seemed like a feudal lord high up in his castle. Generations of township residents, who had never laid eyes on him, pictured him as an all-powerful figure. Some called him the Italian, confusing him for an Italian man who once worked for Mr. Smits father.In reality, Mr. Smit stayed away from the township  out of fear.I never spoke to the people myself, he said. You dont do that. Its not un-dangerous. Its not advisable.Business has been down in recent years. Few tourists visited his modest tasting room, choosing competitors often backed by foreign investors. His two daughters were away teaching English in Vietnam and Taiwan. He wants them to be happy somewhere they will be able to breathe.Before the end of apartheid, Mr. Smit benefited from the white monopoly over land and a steady supply of cheap black labor. His great-grandfather had cultivated grapes since the late 19th century on a property nearby. His father once owned the largest wine estate in the country, Mr. Smits website says.Black people had not been allowed to purchase land in Stellenbosch long before the apartheid government came to power in 1948. One of the farmers who bought the land before Mr. Smits family even had to demonstrate in the late 1930s that he was not a native, according to archived deeds reviewed by The Times.When Mr. Smits father bought the farm in the early 1960s, he had to file an affidavit confirming that he belonged to the White Group. And like some other white farmers, Mr. Smit locked up additional public land in a 50-year lease before the end of apartheid, in return for infrastructure investments estimated at more than $500,000, he said.Still, Mr. Smit does not view land reform as a fair means of redress. The African ethnic groups that make up the majority of South Africa today did not live in this region when European settlers came to the Cape, he said, though he acknowledged that Europeans had violently displaced an indigenous group called the Khoi-San.Them, we must look into the face, he said. But others, its political.By late August, nearly a thousand shacks spread across Mr. Smits plot. With no electricity, many residents went to the township to charge their phones and cook. The municipality later installed two water taps and cleared ground to build some toilets.But if a neighboring settlement was any indication, things were unlikely to improve. In 2006, township dwellers moved into a steep valley filled with venomous snakes. More than a decade later, it is a dangerously overcrowded shantytown with few toilets and no electricity.For months, the new residents of Mr. Smits farm fought to avoid that fate, demonstrating with signs that said, We need land, we took land. Mr. Ndlasi led protest songs adopted from the apartheid era.In late October, while protesting in Stellenbosch, township residents hurled bricks at the municipalitys offices. Mr. Ndlasi and Mr. Wanana, the A.N.C. leader, were arrested, ultimately spending six weeks in jail.At the farm, Mr. Smit began receiving threatening messages.They said theyll burn me alive, he said. After months of a tense standoff, he said he was ready to sell the plot the squatters took over.His friends had warned him of a long fight. One afternoon, Mr. Smit shared bottles of his wine with fellow Afrikaners who had come to support him, an air of uncertainty hanging over the room. They owned the land now, but for how much longer?Well enjoy the ride for a while, Mr. de Klerk said. How did my dad say it? Fasten your seatbelt.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byPresident Trumps nominee to head the Environmental Protection Agency has overseen the dismantling of the nations environmental laws.By Dominique BrowningMs. Browning is a writer and co-founder of Moms Clean Air Force.When I was pregnant with my first child, 35 years ago, one of the first things my doctor in Texas told me was to stop eating tuna, swordfish and other large, fatty fish because they were contaminated with mercury. What I didnt know until I began working on childrens health issues is that the mercury in our food starts as a pollutant in our air.Mercury is released from the combustion of coal and emitted into the atmosphere from the smokestacks of coal-fired power plants. It rains down on land and water, where it is passed up the food chain as methylmercury. Its effects among aquatic animals is particularly pernicious. By the time it reaches larger fish, the concentrations of mercury in their fatty tissue becomes dangerously magnified. Thats why the federal government warns against consuming certain seafood. When pregnant women eat mercury-laden fish, the poison immediately crosses into the bloodstream, travels into the placenta and then makes its way into the fetus, where it deposits itself in the fattiest tissue available: the brain. Mercury is a potent neurotoxin. It disrupts the developing architecture of a babys brain. It can cause brain damage in infants, affecting a childs ability to walk, talk, read and learn.For adults, ingesting even small amounts of mercury can cause serious health problems, harming the brain, heart, kidneys, lungs and immune system. Those coal-fired power plants also spew out lead, arsenic, dioxin, acid gases, as well as cancer-causing chromium and selenium.The Environmental Protection Agency spent more than 20 years working on standards that would require power plants to filter mercury from their emissions. The power industry repeatedly sued the agency to block restrictions. But finally, in 2011, the E.P.A. finalized a rule, the Mercury and Air Toxics Standards, that imposed limits on mercury emissions. The standards have been a resounding success; a testament to a government agency doing its job to keep us safe.To comply, many power plants were outfitted with technology known as scrubbers to remove mercury from the emissions before they leave the smokestack. Since the rule went into effect in 2012, electric companies have cut mercury emissions by nearly 90 percent, according to the Edison Electric Institute, an industry group. Mercury levels in Atlantic fish have been dropping in recent years, a consequence of this rule, but not in fish in the Pacific Ocean, where prevailing winds carry mercury pollution from Asia. So who would want to unravel such an important health protection? The very man President Trump nominated last Wednesday to succeed Scott Pruitt as the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency: Andrew Wheeler. Mr. Wheeler, currently the acting administrator, had served as the deputy administrator under Scott Pruitt, who resigned in July facing more than a dozen investigations into his spending and management practices.   The Senates Environment and Public Works Committee is scheduled to consider his nomination at a hearing this Wednesday.  A former coal industry lobbyist, Mr. Wheeler recently proposed a revision to the way the government evaluates the costs and benefits of regulating mercury emissions and, more broadly, air pollution. While the proposed change would not itself upend the rule, it would revoke the E.P.A.s determination that it was appropriate and necessary, undermining the very foundation on which the regulation is built. In other words, if the rule wasnt appropriate and necessary, why have it? In essence, Mr. Wheeler is inviting the coal industry to challenge the mercury rule in court. And not only the mercury rule. By rewriting the way costs and benefits are evaluated, Mr. Wheelers proposal threatens regulations governing a host of other environmental poisons.The issue over the mercury rule has focused on costs and benefits. Mr. Wheelers E.P.A. argues that the Obama administration was wrong to include co-benefits that would result from the rule. The scrubbers that remove mercury from coal plant emissions also reduce other pollutants, especially particulates, which are deadly, so this co-benefit keeps lethal pollution out of the air.Reductions in heart and lung disease from particulates prevent up to an estimated 11,000 premature deaths a year. And those other hazardous air toxics coming from industrial coal stacks? As someone who has survived kidney cancer  my oncologist vaguely explained it was one of those environmental cancers  I can promise you these arent things we want to breathe: probable carcinogens like cadmium, arsenic, benzene and formaldehyde, among others. The cost associated with harm from these was not even monetized by the E.P.A. Keeping them out of our air is a freebie.If anything, the benefits of reducing mercury have been vastly understated. Since the rule was finalized, the science documenting the severe health impacts of mercury has become even stronger. New studies show that the quantified benefits of reducing mercury are now in the billions of dollars; a study published in the journal Environmental Health in 2017 estimated that the societal costs associated with the neurocognitive deficits from methylmercury exposure in the United States that year was $4.8 billion.Among those urging the E.P.A. to leave the mercury standards alone was, surprisingly, the nations electric utility industry, which found that implementation cost far less than they had anticipated. Power industry experts indicate the true costs of the standards are $2 billion  or less than a quarter of what the agency originally estimated. Mr. Wheeler ignored the industrys request that the standards be left in place. As the Rev. Mitch Hescox, president of the Evangelical Environmental Network, wrote in The Christian Post, addressing Mr. Wheelers legalistic cover of not overturning the rule but making it vulnerable to legal attack: God is not fooled  and neither are we. He added, Well never give up on protecting children and the unborn from mercury pollution. Never.President Trumps pro-polluter agenda is profoundly radical  and immoral. We are in danger of normalizing the presidents ruthless disregard for health- and science-based protections. Mr. Wheelers cynical ploy to upend the mercury regulations is emblematic of his agenda. His fingerprints are all over proposed rollbacks of environmental regulations covering cars, carbon emissions from power plants, coal ash and more. For this destructiveness, Mr. Trump praised him in November, saying he had done a fantastic job and I want to congratulate him.Mr. Wheelers E.P.A. is also weakening implementation of a bipartisan law passed in 2016 protecting the public from toxic chemicals; people with chemical industry rsums dominate his staff. And Mr. Wheeler has sought to roll back an Obama-era rule requiring energy companies to monitor and repair leaks of methane; these leaks can occur from the moment a well is fracked until the gas gets to your home. Methane is an extremely powerful and swift contributor to global warming. Rather than move the country onto a path toward climate safety, Mr. Trump and Mr. Wheeler are leading us  and the world  closer to mutually assured destruction.Mr. Wheeler is more media savvy than Mr. Pruitt ever was, and that makes him more dangerous. His nomination to run the E.P.A. is among the most consequential and cynical of all the cabinet appointments that Mr. Trump has proposed. Mr. Wheelers disregard for the agencys core mission  to protect public health and the environment  is brazen. But what else should we expect from a former coal industry lobbyist? Andrew Wheeler has demonstrated over and over again why he should not be entrusted with protecting us from harm. If his failure to do one single thing to address the global warming catastrophe isnt bad enough to stop this nomination, perhaps his decision to upend the mercury rule, which could threaten the brains of tiny babies, will wake up senators. No one voted to make America dirty again. Dominique Browning is the senior director and a co-founder of Moms Clean Air Force.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"OpinionOne wants to make North Korea safe for the world, while the other wants to make the world safe for North Korea.CreditCreditDoug Mills/The New York TimesSupported byBy Nicholas EberstadtMr. Eberstadt is a political economist and North Korea specialist.And so they meet again. President Trump and Kim Jong-un, the ruler of North Korea, are expected to gather this week in Hanoi, Vietnam, for a second round of nuclear negotiations. Mr. Kim bested Mr. Trump at their first meeting in Singapore in June last year. And he is poised to do so again.The reason is simple: He has a strategy and the Americans do not. The United States hopes to somehow keep the world safe from North Korea. But Mr. Kim has an actual plan to make the world safe for North Korea.Mr. Kims plan  the same as his fathers and grandfathers, and one breathtakingly revisionist  is nothing less than unconditional reunification of the Korean Peninsula under the control of his government in Pyongyang. Nuclear weapons are indispensable to achieving his vision. And rational actors do not bargain away their core interests; only fools or traitors do.For a time, the Trump teams counter-proliferation policy  its maximum pressure campaign of economic strangulation by way of sanctions  seemed to pose a much more serious threat to Pyongyangs nuclear quest than did previous American administrations. North Koreas distorted economy, which is highly dependent on imports of food and energy, as well as foreign subsidies, would not be able to withstand such measures indefinitely, the thinking went. If it was squeezed enough, North Koreas defense industry would suffer, too, and Mr. Kims threat to target the United States would never be fully realized.But then Mr. Kim went on the counteroffensive.In his 2018 New Years address, he declared that the power and reliability of North Koreas nuclear warheads and ballistic missiles had already been proved to the full. He ordered testing to stop and mass production to start. At the same time, he announced that he was ready for dialogue with compatriots from South Korea if they sincerely wish for national concord and unity.This was a deft gambit. It allowed the new South Korean government to jump back into conciliatory engagement  which President Moon Jae-in did almost instantly  and to help cultivate the Americans interest in dialogue with Mr. Kim. The promised halt in testing was taken as a good-will gesture; it reduced international pressure. All the while, North Korea quietly pushed ahead with its nuclear  and missiles programs.In the lead-up to the Singapore meeting, North Korea masterfully probed for its adversarys weaknesses. And it learned that Mr. Trump, for all his fire-and-fury rhetoric, was not just interested in a deal, but hungry for one.The critical test came in late May 2018, when North Korean state media ran a scathing statement by a vice minister of foreign affairs that slammed John Bolton, the American national security adviser, (for reckless remarks) and mocked Vice President Mike Pence (what a political dummy he is). It warned: We can also make the United States taste an appalling tragedy it has neither experienced nor even imagined up to now. The next day, Mr. Trump suspended preparations for the summit  only to quickly order them resumed. The North Koreans knew then they had him hooked.The Singapore summit was held the following month. No momentous decisions emerged from it, at least so far as the public is aware. But on every visible point of contention, North Korea came out ahead. And Mr. Trump praised Mr. Kim while cutting back on military readiness drills that American and South Korean troops have been carrying out together for six decades.As the second Trump-Kim meeting approaches, North Korea looks to have the upper hand again. Mr. Kim has been playing hardball. If the United States persists in imposing sanctions and pressure against our Republic, he warned in his New Years address last month, we may be compelled to find a new way for defending the sovereignty of the country and the supreme interests of the state and for achieving peace and stability of the Korean Peninsula.Team Trump, for its part, is painfully understaffed. The Senate has yet to confirm an assistant secretary of state for East Asia and the Pacific. Stephen Biegun, the special representative for North Korea, is widely respected, but has been working the file for just six months. The North Korean side has brushed off American entreaties both for a nuclear inventory and for setting up substantive working groups ahead of the summit in Hanoi. All of that is to its advantage.If big decisions are made this week  meaning: if Mr. Kim and Mr. Trump are left alone in a room  the North Koreans may well game the dotard, as the North Korean ruler has called the American president. And if no big decisions are reached, North Korea will still win, because it will keep forging ahead with its nuclear and missile-production programs.So heres what to watch out for:One-sided concessions. North Korean negotiators are old hands at this one. One particular something-for-nothing deal they may ask for is being rewarded for halting tests  which they no longer need to conduct.False hopes for false choices. The American side seems to think it can sell North Korea on abandoning its nuclear weaponry in exchange for economic modernization. (This was the pitch in the Destiny Pictures video that Mr. Trump made Mr. Kim watch in Singapore.) The North Korean side may pretend to be interested and claim that no modernization can happen until sanctions are lifted. In reality, Pyongyang has its eyes on both the weapons and the growth; thats what Mr. Kims byungjin, or simultaneous advance, policy is all about. Never mind that he has talked the talk of caring more about economics in recent times; North Korea is still a perpetual war economy. Market development there would only mean a bigger nuclear threat, and faster.The denuclearization trap. One of the United States main blunders in Singapore was to sign a joint statement to, among other things, promote the denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. American negotiators apparently took this to mean the denuclearization of North Korea, when for North Korea, it means getting South Korea out from under Americas nuclear umbrella. Mr. Kim is likely to stall with this cunning phraseology and constructive ambiguity again.An illusory peace declaration. The rumor in Washington is that the United States is now willing to accede to longstanding North Korean demands for a peace declaration that would formally end the Korean War. (Fighting stopped in 1953, but only by a cease-fire agreement.) Whatever such a proclamation might mean under international law, it would marginalize and could endanger South Korea. With a signed declaration in hand, the Kim government would demand, naturally, the departure of American forces from the Korean Peninsula and the scrapping of the United States-South Korean defense alliance.The correct position on this question is, instead, that American forces should remain in the peninsula for as long as the United States and South Korea agree that such a presence is in their respective security interests, peace proclamation or not.And the correct position overall is for the United States to resume a policy of maximum pressure worthy of the name. North Koreas trade with China, by far its most important economic partner, reportedly dropped by nearly 60 percent between January and September of last year. The government in Pyongyang is forced to spend down strategic reserves. A suffocation campaign should be enforced ruthlessly.In its quest to make the world safe for itself, the North Korean government uses diplomacy  granted, a diplomacy of bared fangs and broken promises  to consolidate gains, extract concessions or provoke new crises. At the moment, it seems to be in consolidate and extract mode. But it could shift gears to crisis as soon as that seems beneficial. Maybe or maybe not this week in Hanoi, but certainly at a time and place of Mr. Kims choosing.Nicholas Eberstadt is a political economist at the American Enterprise Institute.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email:letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) andInstagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byAnd they should choose nominees who will help dismantle mass incarceration.By James Forman Jr.Mr. Forman is a law professor at Yale. The 2020 Democratic campaign is already shaping up to be a battle of big ideas. From the Green New Deal to Medicare for All to a wealth tax, the candidates and the country are discussing bold responses to some of the greatest challenges of our times.But when it comes to reforming our criminal legal system, the conversation hasnt been as visionary  in fact, its been almost exclusively backward looking. Senators Kamala Harris and Amy Klobuchar are fending off criticism for actions they took as prosecutors. Should former Vice President Joe Biden enter the race, he can count on having to explain his role in championing regressive crime legislation in the 1980s and 90s.This scrutiny is entirely appropriate. Walk into any criminal courthouse, and you will find it packed with judges and prosecutors lecturing defendants on the importance of accepting responsibility for their choices. Come election time, the officials who built that system must accept responsibility for theirs.But we should do more than look back. In a country that locks up more of its citizens than any other, we should demand that candidates for president have a plan for how they will confront mass incarceration and repair the harms it has caused. While most of the action in our criminal system takes place at the state and local level  almost 90 percent of prisoners are incarcerated in state, county, or local prisons or jails  the federal government still has an important role to play.As Rachel Barkow, a law professor at N.Y.U., argues in her important new book, Prisoners of Politics: Breaking the Cycle of Mass Incarceration, judicial appointments are one of the most powerful ways that a president can influence criminal justice policy. Federal judges make rules that govern nearly every aspect of our system, from police at the beginning of the criminal process to sentencing and prison at the end. Over the past 50 years, those rules have facilitated mass incarceration. Judges have held that the Fourth Amendment doesnt prohibit police from racially profiling drivers during traffic stops, that the Sixth Amendment permits trials with underfunded defense lawyers who present little evidence or argument, and that the Eighth Amendment is no bar to outrageous sentences like life without parole for drug possession.How did our legal landscape become this anti-defendant? In part because so many federal judges are former prosecutors. Ms. Barkow reports that 43 percent of federal judges have been prosecutors, while 10 percent have been public defenders. A judges career background doesnt always predict her rulings  Justice Sonia Sotomayor, a former prosecutor, often stands up for the accused. But she is the exception. Federal judicial opinions typically read as if their authors have given little thought to how an excessively punitive criminal justice system can ruin lives, decimate families and lay waste to entire communities.To upend this dynamic, Democratic presidential candidates must commit themselves to appointing federal judges who will work to challenge mass incarceration. This will mean going beyond anything President Barack Obama attempted. When Mr. Obama wrote a 55-page law review article on what a president could do to push criminal justice reform, he made no mention of judicial appointments. Worse, his appointments displayed almost the same pro-prosecution bias as his predecessors: About 40 percent of his judicial nominees had worked as prosecutors, while some 15 percent had been public defenders.Democratic candidates should promise to eliminate this bias by reshaping the federal bench so that it has as many former public defenders as it does former prosecutors. The Supreme Court is a good place to start. Remember when Donald Trump courted the conservative right by announcing the names of possible nominees  several months before the 2016 election? Any Democratic candidate who wants to win the votes of a Democratic electorate increasingly focused on criminal justice reform should make a similar announcement  and populate the list with lawyers who have seen the criminal system from the standpoint of the accused.There is no shortage of quality names. High on my list would be Bryan Stevenson, a career death penalty opponent, consummate Supreme Court litigator and founder of the Equal Justice Initiative in Alabama. Or Michelle Alexander, former law clerk for Justice Harry Blackmun, civil rights lawyer and author of the canonical The New Jim Crow. (Ms. Alexander is also an opinion columnist for The New York Times.) Or Sherrilyn Ifill, a voting rights expert and head of the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, the civil rights firm founded by Thurgood Marshall in 1940.These arent the names that typically appear on Democratic short lists. They arent sitting judges, and unlike many who now serve on the federal bench, theyve taken unpopular stands, sometimes at great risk. As a result, my list might sound unconventional, even outlandish, to those accustomed to the traditional approach to judicial selection. But it shouldnt. With impeccable credentials, unassailable legal acumen and a fierce determination to take down mass incarceration, these are the future nominees whose names should start rolling off the tongues of Democratic candidates who want to be taken seriously as criminal justice reformers.James Forman Jr. (@jformanjr), a professor at Yale Law School, is the author of Locking Up Our Own: Crime and Punishment in Black America.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byGet ready for a year dominated by the struggle over a scandal-plagued presidency.By David LeonhardtOpinion ColumnistThis article is part of the Opinion Today newsletter. You can sign up here to receive the newsletter each weekday.Its been a while since the United States has faced a year like the one that I expect 2019 to be.This year appears as if it will be dominated by presidential scandals  and the question of whether President Trump can survive those scandals. If he does, 2019 could feel a lot like 1998, when President Bill Clinton did indeed survive. If the danger continues to mount for Trump, 2019 could instead end up resembling 1973 or 1974. The presidency of Richard Nixon, of course, did not survive 1974.Tellingly, some senior Republicans now share these expectations for 2019. The Washington Post recently quoted Steve Bannon predicting that this year would be one of siege warfare for Trump. The story ran under this headline: Republican anxiety spikes as Trump faces growing legal and political perils.[Listen to The Argument podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]To prepare for the coming political battles, I recommend some history  of the battles over the Clinton and Nixon presidencies. Three recent hit podcasts have covered this history, and I enjoyed all of them.Rachel Maddows Bag Man focuses on Spiro Agnews resignation in the midst of Watergate. As she notes, many Americans now have very little knowledge of the Agnew story, and its pretty incredible. The other two podcast come from Slates Leon Neyfakh. The first season of his podcast Slow Burn covered Watergate, and the second season retold the story of Clintons many sex scandals, culminating in his impeachment.All three convey a sense of history-making drama, and I suspect we are about to enter another such period.If you want to read a few recent pieces that put the Trump scandals into perspective, I linked to several in a recent newsletter.You can join me on Twitter (@DLeonhardt) and Facebook. I am also writing a daily email newsletter and invite you to subscribe.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTOpinion).David Leonhardt is a former Washington bureau chief for the Times, and was the founding editor of The Upshot and head of The 2020 Project, on the future of the Times newsroom. He won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize for commentary, for columns on the financial crisis.  @DLeonhardt  Facebook Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Jack Healy, Kate Taylor and Tara Siegel BernardSome cried with relief. Their 35-day nightmare of missing bill payments, working without paychecks, asking strangers for money and visiting food pantries was finally ending.But many of the federal workers who have been furloughed or working for free since December were leery of the three-week deal reached on Friday to reopen the government. New worries gnawed: How long before they got paid? Would federal contractors see even a dime of back pay?And most of all, after the longest shutdown in American history, would they and 800,000 other federal workers be back in the same mess in three weeks if President Trump and Democrats do not reach an accord on whether to fund his proposed border wall?This was all for nothing, basically, said Angela Kelley, 51, a furloughed worker for the Bureau of Land Management in Milwaukee who picked up shifts as an Uber driver to earn money to buy gas and groceries as the shutdown dragged on.On Friday, Mr. Trump praised federal workers as fantastic people and incredible patriots and acknowledged the toll they had suffered. But several federal employees said they still felt angry after being treated like pawns, they said, in a five-week-long Washington standoff. They said the shutdown had left deep scars on their families and finances and undermined their faith in elected leaders, and in the careers they had chosen.The New York Times talked with more than a dozen federal workers and contractors  from wildland firefighters to Coast Guard families to museum security guards  about how they had survived the shutdown, and the uncertainty they now face.John Hare, 42, is one of thousands of Coast Guard employees and retirees worried that they may find themselves in the same precarious position a few weeks from now.Because the Coast Guard is the only branch of the military that is part of the Department of Homeland Security, it was affected by the shutdown. About 55,000 active-duty, reserve and civilian employees had already missed either one or two paychecks, while another 50,000 military retirees would have gone without a pension payment for the first time on Feb. 1.After 22 years of service, Mr. Hare was forced to retire from the Coast Guard last August after learning he had a rare form of cancer that spread from his appendix. His wife had to stop working to care for him, and missing Mr. Hares pension check of $2,698 would have put a significant dent into the family budget.The faith in our leadership to be able to negotiate with each other has been broken, Mr. Hare, of Rolesville, N.C., said on Friday. And they chose to break faith with the U.S. military.I certainly question the hostage-taking of government employees paychecks, he said. And nobody that was in power who had the power to stop this, none of them were injured by the shutdown.It is less a sense of relief because nothing has been solved.Yvette Hicks, 40, a security guard at the Smithsonian museums, said she woke up on Friday and prayed, once again, for the shutdown to end. As a single mother, she said the shutdown had taken a toll on her familys budget and her own mental health.When she learned on Friday she might be returning to work, Ms. Hicks said she had been crying. Her 14-year-old daughter and 8-year-old son were due home from school soon, and she was trying to put up a brave face for them. She said her son, Kaden, had nevertheless told his teachers that his mother was now sad all the time.Ms. Hicks said her family had once been homeless, and that she believed her job at the Smithsonian was a path to stability. She even saved up enough to book a spring-break vacation for her children to an indoor water park in Virginia. But as the bills piled up and her paychecks stopped, she said she canceled the trip and lost the $350 deposit she had paid for a room.Its just a hurting thing, she said. This has damaged my family.Anthony Powers, 35, had begun thinking about leaving his 15-year career as part of an elite team of wildland firefighters with the United States Forest Service in Southern California. He was that frustrated with his nations leaders.Our country is being run by children, he said.On Friday, he was relieved but not elated, noting that everything could shut down again soon.Mr. Powers and his colleagues typically spend this time of year clearing away brush to help lessen fire danger in the coming year. None of that has been happening for the last month or so, and his team needs more than three weeks to get the job done. He also has a national conference set for the end of February, and the short-term opening leaves him in limbo. Is it going to happen? Should he plan for it? Not plan for it?Theres been so much planning for this to go into the long-term, he said. Now its like, where do you reset?Nic Trujillo, 34, a single father and collections representative for the Internal Revenue Service in Ogden, Utah, said the shutdown had done financial and emotional damage.He had not paid rent in January because he needed to pay other expenses. On Friday, he and his 6-year-old son were just one week away from being evicted and having to move in with extended family.Staying at home had also left him depressed. Before he was ordered to return to work without pay on Jan. 18, his natural night-owl tendencies had taken over. He would stay up late, get up to get his son off to school, then sleep for much of the day.I havent really done anything. I havent really gone anywhere, he said, explaining that he didnt want to waste gas. Its just been a very depressive time.He said he blamed both the president and Congress for the shutdown, saying that none of them knew what it was like to live paycheck to paycheck.They are so out of touch with the American people that its unacceptable.Kim Howell, 34, whose husband is in the Coast Guard in Boston and has been working 12-hour night shifts throughout the shutdown, said she didnt feel much relief on Friday. She said she didnt expect that her husband would get any back pay for a week or two. And then there was the possibility that the government would shut down again in three weeks.Ms. Howell said her family had been fortunate because she works for a tech startup. But the loss of her husbands income strained them. They had to put off rent payments, utility bills, and cellphone, cable and internet bills.She had visited a food pantry that had been set up in Boston for Coast Guard families. She worried about the impact on her three children, who are 9, 13 and 14. Her oldest child told her he felt helpless and anxious watching his parents try to navigate the crisis. She did not blame any particular party, but said she felt betrayed. And she worried the dysfunction was far from over.Im staying in shutdown mode, she said. Thats the only responsible thing to do right now.Reporting was contributed by Julie Turkewitz and Mitch Smith.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byLet people see it. There was no collusion. There was no obstruction. There was no nothing.PRESIDENT TRUMP, on releasing the report of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byWho says there are no second acts in American history?By Kevin BakerMr. Baker is a novelist and historian.On Thursday, Nancy Pelosi became the first person in 64 years to return to the position of speaker of the House of Representatives, completing the most startling comeback in American politics since Richard Nixon became president.Her return says a great deal about Ms. Pelosi and about our politics, but above all it is a triumph of nerve and ability. Republicans have tried for years to make Ms. Pelosis very name a curse. President Trump and members of his party have called her, among many other things, the promoter of a socialist agenda and the unhinged face of her party, while others have labeled her as both the San Francisco Democrat that she is, and a machine politician from Baltimore, where her father and an older brother both served as mayor.The strategy seemed to be working. Through most of last years midterm campaigns, many Democrats also warily avoided endorsing her, speaking instead of the need to embrace a new generation of leadership and replace a toxic brand. But when the vote for speaker was over last week, there was Ms. Pelosi with gavel in hand again, having lost only 15 votes from her caucus.How did this happen?Qualifying for Congress today has come to seem more and more like the college admission process, where you pile up incredible achievements that will rarely benefit you on campus. The speakership, by contrast, is a place for pluggers. Its an odd post, rare in democratic politics, where one can serve simultaneously in opposition and the majority, leading your own party in the House while dealing with a president from the other side.There have been political stars in the office. Henry Clay put in the second longest time there. James G. Blaine, the plumed knight of post-Civil War Republicans, held the post for nearly six years. Neither of them made it to the position they coveted, in the White House  though the one former speaker who did become chief executive, James K. Polk, was the most successful one-term president in our history. Say what you will about his agenda  and a lot of people, then and now, had a lot to say  Polk was a model of efficiency and won the Mexican War, nearly doubled the size of the United States, lowered tariffs and instituted an independent Treasury system before refusing to run for re-election and quietly dying three months after leaving office. A very speaker-like performance, when you think of it. Ms. Pelosi, the only woman to be speaker, is also the first person to repeat in the office since Sam Rayburn, who served a record 17 years as speaker over three different stretches in the office, the last of which only ended with his death, in 1961. Mr. Sam, a moderate Texas Democrat, twice exchanged the speakers gavel with his Republican counterpart, Joe Martin, a moderate Massachusetts conservative. This was back in a more parliamentary era, when no one considered the vagaries of voters in a national election to be a reason to kick out a perfectly able congressional leader.Rayburn helped steer the country through World War II and much of the Cold War, served faithfully under Presidents Franklin Roosevelt, Harry Truman and Dwight Eisenhower; became a mentor to Lyndon Johnson; and insisted L.B.J. join the national ticket under John Kennedy. Rayburn also built up one of his successors, the diminutive Carl Albert from Oklahoma, who, after gaining the speakership, twice found himself first in the line of succession to the presidency during the Watergate scandals. On each occasion, Albert did all he could to put others in place before him, believing, as he said on becoming speaker, I hope we will get together, and work for the country, and not work for the two political parties.Such a sentiment, not to mention the idea of stepping away from power for the good of the country, seems so alien to our politics today that it might have come from a different age. In light of such service, talk of toxic brands and a new generation of leaders seems misplaced.Rayburn, Albert and Tip ONeill  who negotiated a key bill with President Ronald Reagan to preserve funding for Social Security  formed the ideal of the modern speakership. They shaped policy, worked with presidents from either party, molded their successors and tried to move the wheel forward. They sought compromise but also tried to bring about what progress had to be made. Above all, they respected the institution they led, the most thoroughly democratic part of our national government.It was a model that worked very well  or at least it did until Newt Gingrich wrecked it, as he wrecked so much that he put his hand to. Mr. Gingrichs rebellion was aimed at cozy, low-level corruption and complacency, which certainly existed in the old speaker system. But his brand of self-aggrandizing hyperpartisanship proved exactly wrong as a corrective. Unable to conquer or to compromise, he ended up fleeing the Capitol engulfed in investigations and hounded by allegations about his own personal conduct.Ms. Pelosi represents a restoration of that ideal, and she brings formidable talents and a legendary work ethic (back) to the job. In what was described as an unbelievable marathon to secure Obamacare, she personally took on the task of winning over 60 wavering Democrats. To win back the speakership this time, she swayed another 60 or so members of her caucus.For Pelosi, the strategy in every campaign she runs is owning the ground, writes her friend Steve Israel, a former congressman, which is not just a matter of a campaign field operation, but extends to message as well.Ms. Pelosi doesnt hesitate to associate her own ambitions with the quest for womens equality  You know why I do it? I do it because I want women to see you do not get pushed around, she told CNNs Dana Bash  and some, including Representative Rosa DeLauro of Connecticut, have attributed Ms. Pelosis ability to whip a caucus to the mothering skills that come from having five children and eight grandchildren: She has eyes in the back of her head.At the same time, she regularly displays what have traditionally  wrongly  been considered male attributes in politics. She keeps her head when all about her are losing theirs and is adept at the deadpan gibe, usually delivered right between the ribs. When President Barack Obama and his chief of staff Rahm Emanuel seemed about to abandon the Affordable Care Act in despair, she mocked their proposed alternative as incrementalism and Kiddie Care, and told them: Well never have a better majority in your presidency in numbers than weve got right now. We can make this work. She proceeded to get it done, vote by vote, maneuver after maneuver.Republicans have already received a full barrage of what Ms. Pelosi can do. She quietly but directly called Mr. Trump out on his lying and fearmongering about immigration, labeled the governments closing the Trump shutdown and mocked his planned border wall as a beaded curtain and a manhood thing for him.The day after Mr. Trump subjected us to a cabinet meeting that seemed like a lost outtake from Charlie Chaplins Great Dictator, Ms. Pelosi turned the opening of the new Congress into a jubilant festival, one that celebrated the youth and diversity of her party, complete with a table full of Bibles and a male representative rocking a baby. She took her oath of office surrounded by children  and followed it up by pushing through a series of bills that both parties had previously voted for, challenging Republicans to reopen the government and giving a speech that quoted Reagan.In her second stint as speaker, Ms. Pelosi goes into the job with a majority that is 21 seats smaller than what she enjoyed previously, and without a Democratic White House or a Senate majority to aid her. She has limited herself to four years in the job  part of the price of regaining it  and her remarkable energy notwithstanding, she will be nearing her mid-80s when she finishes it. She must navigate a much nastier Washington culture that is likely to turn even uglier as congressional investigations into the president begin, and the Mueller report is delivered.On the other side is Ms. Pelosis restive new Democratic majority, which demands a say in setting the agenda. This is not Mr. Sams House of Representatives. The brightest new Democratic star, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, joined a protest in Ms. Pelosis office before she even took her seat. When Carl Albert showed up for his first day at the House, he was given a pile of papers to deliver to an office by an older congressman who mistook him for a page. (Albert did as he was told.) Ms. Pelosi would never so disrespect a member, and it may well be that both her new majority and her old-school skills will serve her well. As Ronald Brownstein pointed out in The Atlantic, changing demographics have left her with far fewer conservative Democrats from blue-collar or rural districts  Democrats who hobbled Ms. Pelosi and such previous Democratic speakers as Tom Foley and Tip ONeill. Her current majority may squabble over economics, but it is unlikely to fight over social issues like immigration, gay rights or abortion.The San Francisco Democrat and product of the Baltimore machine may be just the person to lead this new coalition. Asked on her first day back as speaker why she would not compromise on the border wall, Ms. Pelosi told the press, seemingly off the cuff: A wall, in my view is an immorality, before adding, Its the least effective way to protect the border and the most costly.There was the old Democratic liberalism at its best, idealistic and pragmatic at the same time: The wall is wrong because its wrong, plus it wont work. Its worth noting that Ms. Ocasio-Cortez cast her first vote in Congress to return Nancy Pelosi to the speakership. Mr. Sam would be proud.Kevin Baker is a novelist and historian and the author, most recently, of America the Ingenious.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byIt would be nice to see Latinos living regular lives  not stereotype-fueled fantasies  onscreen.By Hctor TobarContributing Opinion Writer They keep coming. Armed with replica automatic weapons firing blanks, gallons of stage blood and mangled Mexican accents, the cartels are streaming across our undefended border, and into our multiplexes and our video streams.These onscreen villains torture their enemies, they kill good Americans and they might turn up anywhere. Last year, in Sicario: Day of the Soldado, which is just one of at least six films in which the great Benicio Del Toro wrestles with Latin American drug lords, or plays one himself, they were linked to the bombing of a supermarket in Kansas City.The cartel operative  be he a kingpin or a hit man or a small-time drug dealer  has become the dominant image of Latino people in American television and cinema. Hes of course also the dominant image of Latino people in the discourse of the president of the United States.By the next network upfronts, or summer movie blockbuster season, Latino drug operatives may outpace their chief rivals  jihadist terrorists and Russians mobsters  and become the countrys leading screen bad guys.You two understand that were dealing with a virus? a Mexican cop asks his American counterparts, referring to the drug-fueled corruption overwhelming a fictitious Mexican town in the CBS television drama SEAL Team. Here, everyone is born infected.The dialogue and imagery of cartel movies associates Latino identity with inherent, pure evil again and again. Its time for Hollywood to ask: What message are we sending to the American public by asking this countrys Latino actors to act out one execution-style killing after another? And isnt this all becoming a bit tired and predictable?The quality of these dramas, speaking in purely artistic terms, varies widely: from the Emmy-winning TV series Breaking Bad and the not-so-celebrated 2013 comedy film Were the Millers to this years widely panned Peppermint and Clint Eastwoods largely well-received The Mule. But they repeat the same tropes: Latino gang members grimacing as they mad-dog confused white people; a secret meeting on a Mexican hacienda, with tequila served and Latinas in bikinis as poolside eye candy.Its become a genre. You can see it, Mr. Del Toro told The Guardian in June. Regarding films about drugs, he said, Theyre becoming the new Westerns.Unfortunately, this new genre doesnt purport to depict events from Americas past, but rather a supposedly real menace in the here and now. In late December, President Trump shut down parts of the government over the border wall he wants to build to keep out immigrants he says are drug-dealing criminals. Hes never stopped making up false and distorted statements about the dangers posed by Latino immigrants. All the while, Hollywood has been inventing screen stories that sell the image of lawbreaking Latinos as a threat to American peace and security.In the odious 2018 film Peppermint, Jennifer Garner acts out a Trumpian fantasy. As a suburban mom whose husband and daughter were killed by Latino drug dealers, she becomes a one-woman vigilante army, killing a series of Latino assassins and destroying a piata warehouse that doubles as a drug lords secret headquarters. The New Yorker called it a racist film that reflects the current strain of anti-immigrant politics and its paranoid focus on MS-13.Like the drug dealers in Peppermint, the bad guys in Latino drug war films are often a mishmash of tropes and stereotypes. The cartel operatives in SEAL Team resemble an Islamic State army as they launch a Benghazi-style attack on the shows heroes. The Americans take refuge in a Mexican church and summon other Navy SEALS to rescue them. The show aired not long after Mr. Trump sent troops to the Mexican border to stop a caravan of Central Americans.Hollywood has become addicted to the narco narrative because it offers a tried-and-true tale of good and evil on an epic scale.The new Netflix series Narcos: Mexico features an excellent, nuanced performance by Diego Luna as a smart, enterprising and deeply flawed man. But watching Mr. Luna build his empire, I longed to see a Latino actor play a big Hollywood role without seeing him leave the usual trail of cocaine and severed heads in his wake.In The Mule, Mr. Eastwood plays an older man filled with regrets after a lifetime of alienating his wife and daughter. The drug dealers are really just stand-ins for forces that are eating away at many American families: rampant gun violence and the cruel logic of capitalism. The bad guys in narco films are always ruthless hyper-entrepreneurs, and in The Mule they tell Mr. Eastwoods character, We own your ass. In The Mule, as in countless films of lesser quality, Latino stereotypes become symbols of a white mans powerlessness and his unchecked desires. For his role in Ozark, Jason Bateman earned a Golden Globe nomination as yet another ordinary gringo caught up in the machinations of a Mexican cartel.Meanwhile, in real life, Latinos are acting out their own human foibles, and trying to build their own private empires, in fields that dont involve criminal activity. They manage your local Walmart, study law, get divorced, attend cosplay conventions, and do all sorts of things you rarely see them do in mainstream American television and film.The dominant story among the more than 57 million Latino people in the United States is not the drug war: Its inequality, immigrant ambition and the wounds caused by the separation of extended families. These themes await a treatment as virtuosic as There Will Be Blood, or as smart and cutting as Get Out.Mr. or Ms. Studio Executive, instead of another film with fake tattoos and stilted accents, consider investing in new talent and greenlighting a big, smart Latino project. And think of the narcos as chili powder  as a spice, they should be used sparingly.Insist on quality and complexity in the screen stories you tell about Latino people, and you might even look like a genius as you tap into a true and untold American epic more compelling than any cartel conspiracy.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael S. Schmidt and Scott ShaneWASHINGTON  The report on the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, will be made public on Thursday, and unless youre a counterintelligence analyst, you may have lost track of how we got to this point in the saga and what Mr. Mueller was investigating in the first place. Here is a guide to what has happened over the past three years (yes, its been that long) and what we learned. March 2016Military intelligence officers in Moscow, working for the agency known as the G.R.U., used phishing emails and malware to hack into the Democratic National Committee and the Gmail account of John Podesta, Hillary Clintons campaign manager.Meanwhile, operatives at the Internet Research Agency, a private company in St. Petersburg with Kremlin ties, accelerated their influence campaign, posing as Americans on Facebook and Twitter to mock Mrs. Clinton, promote Mr. Trump and sow discord. Other operatives came to the United States to gather intelligence and coordinate with unwitting Trump campaign staff to organize rallies, according to an indictment.They were all aspects of a broader Russian operation that began in 2014, court papers show. American intelligence agencies would conclude that President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia ordered the intervention. Though it began well before Mr. Trump announced his run, Mr. Putin, who had long despised Mrs. Clinton, was later drawn to Mr. Trumps Russia-friendly stances. As Mr. Trump gained ground in the race, the Russian operatives adjusted their targets accordingly.Read More:The Perfect Weapon: How Russian Cyberpower Invaded the U.S.The Plot to Subvert an Election: Unraveling the Russia Story So FarJuly 2016Three days before the Democratic Party nominated Mrs. Clinton, the anti-secrecy website WikiLeaks released 20,000 emails the Russians had hacked from the D.N.C., embarrassing Democrats and alerting the C.I.A. and F.B.I. to the Russian interference.Days later, F.B.I. agents learned the details of an even more troubling fact: One of Mr. Trumps campaign advisers, George Papadopoulos, knew in advance about Russias plans. As links between the Trump campaign and Russia emerged, Mr. Trumps repeated praise for Mr. Putin, and his disdain for NATO and traditional American allies  unusual stances for a Republican  added to suspicions about his relationship with Russia.In late July, the F.B.I. opened an investigation, code-named Crossfire Hurricane, to examine the connections between Trump associates and Russia. The investigation initially focused on Mr. Papadopoulos and three others with significant Russian ties: Paul Manafort, Michael T. Flynn and Carter Page.Read More:Assange, Avowed Foe of Clinton, Timed Email Release for Democratic ConventionCode Name Crossfire Hurricane: The Secret Origins of the Trump InvestigationDecember 2016After Mr. Trump was elected, Mr. Flynn, the incoming national security adviser, discussed with the Russian ambassador the sanctions that President Barack Obama had imposed on Russia over its election interference. But Mr. Flynn lied about the conversations, both to others in the White House and to federal investigators, leading to his dismissal and criminal charges. Separately, Jared Kushner, the presidents son-in-law, met with a Russian banker during the presidential transition, calling it a routine diplomatic meeting; Russian officials said they had discussed the Kushner familys real estate business.Incoming Trump administration officials began to explore how sanctions on Russia might be lifted, possibly as a result of a grand bargain over its incursions into Ukraine. Some Obama administration holdovers feared an easing of sanctions might be payback for Russian help in the election.Read More:In Closed Hearing, a Clue About the Heart of Muellers Russia InquiryProsecutors Examining Ukrainians Who Flocked to Trump InauguralInvestigation Turns to Kushners Motives in Meeting With a Putin AllyFlynn Is Said to Have Talked to Russians About Sanctions Before Trump Took OfficeJanuary 2017Weeks before Mr. Trump was inaugurated, the heads of the American intelligence agencies briefed him at Trump Tower about how Russia worked during the campaign to help him defeat Mrs. Clinton. But the information left Mr. Trump unconvinced.After the briefing, the F.B.I. director, James B. Comey, pulled Mr. Trump aside to warn him that a dossier compiled by a bureau informant asserted that the Russians had compromising material on him, though Mr. Comey cautioned that the information had not been corroborated.Throughout the early months of Mr. Trumps presidency, he grew increasingly agitated with Mr. Comey. The president complained about the bureaus decision to move forward with the Russia investigation and Mr. Comeys unwillingness to say publicly that he was not under investigation.Read More:In a Private Dinner, Trump Demanded Loyalty. Comey Demurred.The Trump Dossier: What We Know and Who Paid for ItFrom the Start, Trump Has Muddied a Clear Message: Putin InterferedOP-ED Contributor: Im Proud We Published the Trump-Russia DossierMay 2017On May 9, 2017, Mr. Trump fired Mr. Comey, setting off a chain of events that led to the appointment of Mr. Mueller several days later. Among the issues Mr. Mueller was assigned to investigate: the dimensions of Russias interference in the election, including any possible involvement by Trump associates; whether Mr. Trump had obstructed justice by firing Mr. Comey and asking him to end the Flynn investigation; and whether the president was a witting or unwitting agent of Russia.Read More:Robert Mueller, Former F.B.I. Director, Is Named Special Counsel for Russia InvestigationWhat Will Mueller Do? The Answer Might Lie in a By-the-Book PastF.B.I. Opened Inquiry Into Whether Trump Was Secretly Working on Behalf of RussiaTalk of the 25th Amendment Underscores a Volatile PresidencyJune 2017Mr. Trump stewed about Mr. Muellers investigation, blaming Attorney General Jeff Sessions, who had recused himself from oversight of the inquiry on the counsel of ethics advisers. A month after Mr. Muellers appointment, a fed-up president told his White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn, to fire Mr. Mueller, but Mr. McGahn refused.The episode was one of many actions and statements by the president, many of them in public, that seemed to be intended to disrupt or derail the Mueller investigation, which Mr. Trump routinely derided as a witch hunt. The pattern would feed into Mr. Muellers task of deciding whether Mr. Trump had obstructed justice or tried to do so.Read More:Trump Asked Sessions to Retain Control of Russia Inquiry After His RecusalTrumps Son Met With Russian Lawyer After Being Promised Damaging Information on ClintonTrump Ordered Mueller Fired, but Backed Off When White House Counsel Threatened to QuitOctober 2017Mr. Manafort and another senior campaign official, Rick Gates, were indicted on charges of financial crimes related to their work as consultants for a pro-Russian leader of Ukraine. Court papers revealed that Mr. Papadopoulos had pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about his contacts with Russian intermediaries during the campaign. A month and a half later, Mr. Flynn also pleaded guilty to lying about his own contacts with the Russians and agreed to cooperate with prosecutors.The investigation, in other words, had already caught up Mr. Trumps campaign manager and first national security adviser, among many others. Most of the charges involved lying to the F.B.I. or to Congress, and a pressing question for Mr. Muellers team was why so many of Mr. Trumps associates felt compelled to conceal the truth.Read More:Former Trump Aides Charged as Prosecutors Reveal New Campaign Ties With RussiaHow the Russia Inquiry Began: A Campaign Aide, Drinks and Talk of Political DirtMichael Flynn Pleads Guilty to Lying to the F.B.I. and Will Cooperate With Russia InquiryEmails Dispute White House Claims That Flynn Acted Independently on RussiaFebruary 2018In detailed court papers that laid out a major aspect of the Kremlins interference scheme, Mr. Mueller charged 13 Russians and three Russian companies for mounting the fraudulent social media campaign. A second indictment would follow in July, naming the Russian military intelligence officers who had hacked and leaked Democratic emails during the campaign.The accused Russians were unlikely ever to be arrested or face trial. But the indictments, packed with remarkable detail, had a political impact: They undercut Mr. Trumps repeated claims that no one really knew whether Russia was responsible for the election interference or that the Russian actions were a hoax.Read More:13 Russians Indicted as Mueller Reveals Effort to Aid Trump Campaign12 Russian Agents Indicted in Mueller Investigation12 Russians Charged: Major Highlights of the Indictment and Rod Rosensteins StatementApril 2018Mr. Muellers investigators unearthed new leads about possible corruption relating to Mr. Trump beyond Russia. After a referral from Mr. Mueller, federal prosecutors in Manhattan began investigating potential violations of campaign finance laws, raiding the residences and office of Mr. Trumps longtime lawyer and fixer, Michael D. Cohen. He pleaded guilty in August to illegally paying off two women during the 2016 campaign to silence them about sexual encounters they alleged with Mr. Trump, who has denied the affairs.In court, Mr. Cohen said Mr. Trump directed him to arrange the payments, an assertion echoed by prosecutors months later, effectively tagging Mr. Trump as an unindicted co-conspirator in the crime.Also in August, a jury convicted Mr. Manafort on financial fraud counts, not tied to the Trump campaign but exposing him to a lengthy prison sentence. He would plead guilty in a separate case, agree to cooperate  but later be accused of continuing to lie as prosecutors questioned him under his plea agreement. Prosecutors would say he had given Konstantin V. Kilimnik, a longtime associate suspected of ties to Russian intelligence, detailed polling data from the presidential campaign.Read More:Michael Cohen Secretly Taped Trump Discussing Payment to Playboy ModelTools of Trumps Fixer: Payouts, Intimidation and the TabloidsPaul Manafort, Trumps Former Campaign Chairman, Guilty of 8 CountsDecember 2018Mr. Cohen pleaded guilty to another charge: lying to Congress about how long Mr. Trump pursued a real estate project in Russia during 2016. His plea demonstrated that Mr. Trump had continued to negotiate over a proposed Trump Tower Moscow deep into the campaign  even as he publicly encouraged the Russians to hack Mrs. Clintons emails and the Kremlin kept up its effort to help his campaign.As the investigations around Mr. Trump intensified at the end of the year, he tried a familiar tactic: He asked his acting attorney general to try to exert more control over the investigations related to Mr. Cohen.In January, Mr. Mueller continued his pursuit of those around Mr. Trump, indicting the presidents longtime adviser, Roger Stone, on charges of lying to Congress about his contacts with WikiLeaks during the campaign. The indictment contained a curious detail. It said that a senior campaign official was directed by an unnamed person to have Mr. Stone inquire from WikiLeaks about the future release of material damaging to Mrs. Clinton.Read More:Cohen Pleads Guilty and Details Trumps Involvement in Moscow Tower ProjectProsecutors Effectively Accuse Trump of Defrauding Voters. What Does It Mean?February 2019In a daylong appearance before the House Oversight Committee, Mr. Cohen turned on the boss he had once said he would take a bullet to protect. He said he had only suspicions of a Trump-Russia connection but laid out evidence of a range of possible crimes with no Russian connection.He displayed a check signed by the president, he said was to reimburse him for hush money payments, that could implicate Mr. Trump in a campaign finance violation. He described how Mr. Trump inflated and deflated the value of his assets to get loans or reduce taxes, actions that could amount to bank fraud, insurance fraud and tax evasion. He said Mr. Trump had indicated, without directly instructing him, that he should lie to Congress. He described how Mr. Trump had used his charity to purchase a portrait of himself, in evident violation of state laws governing charitable foundations.Read More:Michael Cohen Accuses Trump of Expansive Pattern of Lies and CriminalityTestimony From Cohen Could Compound Legal Issues for TrumpWith Sweeping Document Request, Democrats Launch Broad Trump Corruption Inquirymarch 2019Mr. Mueller delivered a lengthy report to Attorney General William P. Barr last month. Two days later, Mr. Barr announced that Mr. Mueller did not find that the Trump campaign, or anyone associated with it, conspired or coordinated with"" Russia. A more clouded picture emerged on the question of whether Mr. Trump illegally obstructed justice. Mr. Barr said that Mr. Mueller declined to determine whether Mr. Trump broke the law but also pointedly did not exonerate him. Mr. Barr said that left it to him to make the judgment, and that he and Mr. Rosenstein concluded that Mr. Trump had not violated the law. But some of the special counsels investigators told associates that Mr. Barr failed to adequately portray their findings and that they were more troubling for Mr. Trump than his attorney general indicated.Read More:Mueller Delivers Report on Trump-Russia Investigation to Attorney GeneralMueller Finds No Trump-Russia Conspiracy, but Stops Short of Exonerating President on ObstructionSome on Muellers Team Say Report Was More Damaging Than Barr RevealedIf Mr. Mueller portrays Mr. Trump as intent on using his power to protect himself and his associates from an investigation, the revelations could prompt Democrats to expand their investigations into the president and even consider impeachment. But if the report simply summarizes what is already known, it could embolden Mr. Trump, who has already begun calling for scrutiny of the investigations origins.Michael S. Schmidt is a Washington correspondent covering national security and federal investigations. He was part of two teams that won Pulitzer Prizes in 2018  one for reporting on workplace sexual harassment and the other for coverage of President Trump and his campaigns ties to Russia.  @NYTMike Scott Shane is a national security reporter in Washington. He was part of teams that won Pulitzer Prizes in 2017 for coverage of Russia's projections of power abroad and in 2018 for reporting on Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.  @ScottShaneNYT  Facebook Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Dave ItzkoffSaturday Night Live once again dipped into its deep reserve of celebrity guest stars to portray the various members and associates of President Trumps administration, this time turning to Steve Martin, who played Roger J. Stone Jr., the longtime Trump adviser who was arrested on Friday after having been indicted by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III.The opening sketch of this weeks episode, hosted by James McAvoy and featuring the musical guest Meek Mill, was a parody of the Fox News program Tucker Carlson Tonight. Carlson was played by the S.N.L. cast member Alex Moffat, who explained, Im like if those shorts with the little whales on them came to life.Moffat introduced his top story: President Trumps heroic end to the shutdown, he said. It did take him 35 days, but he was finally able to get no wall. Interviewing another Fox News personality, Jeanine Pirro (Cecily Strong), Moffat said, Im going to smugly ask a question that I already know the answer to, and a warning to our viewers, my voice will get very high.Describing her stance on immigration, Strong said, We have to take a Marie Kondo approach to cleaning up this country. If something doesnt spark joy, throw it out. And you know what doesnt spark joy in me? Guatemalans.Moffat also interviewed Wilbur Ross (Kate McKinnon), the commerce secretary, who earlier this week said he didnt understand why furloughed government workers needed food assistance because they could just take out low-interest loans instead.An apologetic McKinnon said, That was silly of me. I simply meant that there are other ways of getting money. Like, they couldve liquidated some of their stocks or sold one of their paintings. I mean, even if they sold a lesser Picasso, thats still going to get you through a week or two of yacht maintenance.She added, All I meant was that we all have to make sacrifices in times of hardship. For example, instead of going out to dinner, you could open a restaurant in your house. Or, for a period of time, you could have your horses attend public school. The small things add up.Finally, Moffat brought out his last guest  a man you look at and instantly think, I trust this guy  Roger Stone, played by Martin in a pinstripe suit and his voice projected at maximum volume.What a fun couple of days, Martin proclaimed. Im loving the ride. Go Nixon!Asking for pity from Carlsons viewers, Martin said, Im just a poor, helpless old man. Im 66. Im almost as old as Sting.Speaking of his early-morning arrest, he said, The whole experience was so harrowing that afterwards I could only manage one radio interview. And a speech from the steps of the courthouse. And two appearances on television. Its horrible!Then at the close of the sketch, Martin tweaked one of his best-known S.N.L. catchphrases: Hey, Im just a normal and straightforward guy, he said.Weekend Update Jokes of the WeekAt the Weekend Update desk, the anchors Colin Jost and Michael Che continued to riff on President Trumps agreement to reopen the federal government for three weeks.Jost:President Trump on Friday announced a deal to temporarily reopen the government for three weeks, while negotiations continue over border security. Three weeks. Were basically treating our government like its a trial period for a Hulu subscription. Its pretty clear that Trump has not figured out how to deal with Nancy Pelosi yet. Usually when a woman is giving him this much trouble, he just gives her 130 grand to shut up. During his speech from the Rose Garden ending the shutdown, Trump said this: [Video of President Trump saying, We do not need 2,000 miles of concrete wall from sea to shiny sea. We never did.] Shiny sea? Also, remember when you said this? [Video of President Trump saying, Were going to build a wall. Its going to be a big, fat, beautiful wall.] Now that wall sounds awesome. But tell me more about this new one. [Video of President Trump saying, The walls we are building are not medieval walls. They are smart walls.] Walls with brains, got it. Now, someone told me that medieval solutions were actually effective. [Video of President Trump saying, They say a wall is medieval. Well, so is a wheel. A wheel is older than a wall.] Hes president. But just to clarify, we are still calling it a wall, right? [Video of President Trump saying, Barriers, fences or walls. Or whatever you want to call it.] Honestly at this point Id just like to call it quits.Che:On Friday, President Trump temporarily reopened the government, and I know liberals are tweeting out, Trump caved! Trump caved! But yall gotta calm down. Stop gloating. You didnt win yet. The man is still one tweet away from calling a national state of emergency and bringing back slavery. Act like hes still crazy. Youve got to treat him like youre training a dog. Constant positive reinforcement. Maybe instead, every time he does something you like, tweet out, Whos a good boy?They also commented on the indictment and arrest of Roger Stone.Che:Roger Stone was arrested at 6 a.m. Friday morning by a team of officers with heavy weapons. Finally. This is all Ive been waiting for. Old white dudes getting dragged out their crib like dope dealers. Was it excessive? Yes. And I wish it was worse. I wish he was just wearing boxers and a durag and there was a baby crying and they tased his girl. Give him the works.Jost:Longtime Trump adviser and business Babadook Roger Stone has been charged by the special counsels office on seven counts, including obstruction, making false statements, witness tampering and, I assume, the attempted murder of Batman. Stone, pictured here as an old woman being told theres no more room at bingo, left the courtroom to face a crowd that was booing and chanting, Lock him up. First of all, its always fun to watch a press conference on mute where the captions say, Crowd booing. Second, you know how much people have to hate you for them to show up just to boo you in the middle of a workday? They found out you were arrested that morning, immediately called their office like, yeah, Im going to be late. Ive got to head down the courthouse and yell at steampunk Lincoln.Music Video of the WeekThere wasnt anything political or topical about this segment, but Leslie Jones was charming in a hip-hop tribute to Manhattans Upper East Side. Though she has previously lived in neighborhoods like Compton, Spanish Harlem and Bedford-Stuyvesant, Jones pledged her devotion to the U.E.S., saying, Yall say its boring, yall say its homogeneous, but yall dont know it like I do.Then she went on to rap:This aint Harlem, yall, I got Seamless for daysAnd a cab outside that comes right awayI order what I want, yall cant stop meTwo in the morning, bring me salmon and broccoliYou think there aint no black folks? Son, youre mistakenTheres nannies and nurses and a doorman whos JamaicanAdvertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Jennifer SeniorDOING JUSTICE A Prosecutors Thoughts on Crime, Punishment, and the Rule of Law By Preet BhararaAm I the only woman in America who considers Preet Bharara her podcast husband?I am guessing not. His show, Stay Tuned With Preet, is a salve, an indulgence, a lifeline: It coasts along not just on the vitality of Bhararas intelligence (uncommonly useful, given that he once was the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, and so many urgent questions these days are legal ones), and not just on his ability to do a good interview (though theres that too; one wonders if years of quizzing witnesses and summarizing cases made him understand the rhythms of a good story), but on his warmth, humor, reasonableness. Donald J. Trump may be laying dynamite beneath the floorboards of our most beloved institutions, democracies here and elsewhere may have blown a flat, but Preets still there, calmly issuing dispatches from Planet Rational, reminding us each week that humane people with fine minds and old-fashioned concerns (integrity! character! truth, justice, the commonweal!) are still very much a part of public life.Plus, his children think hes a dork. United States attorneys: Theyre just like us.Given how busy his tenure was  his office prosecuted everyone from the Times Square Bomber to the two top legislators in Albany  and given how rare a varietal he is of charm and conscientiousness and intellect, Bharara seems the ideal candidate to write a fine memoir. But Doing Justice: A Prosecutors Thoughts on Crime, Punishment, and the Rule of Law isnt a memoir, exactly; had it been an uncomplicated reminiscence, I would have enjoyed it much more.[ Cant wait to read the Mueller report? Here are some books to read in the meantime. ]What is it instead? In his preface, Bharara explains that for years, hes wanted to write a guide for young prosecutors, one that draws not from legal texts and treatises but from the real-life human dilemmas that would perplex them every day. So: Letters to a Young Lawyer, lets call it, based on a lived curriculum. But as Bharara was developing his themes, he adds, he realized that this book might in fact be a guide to justice generally, not only for practitioners, but for real people who strive and struggle in their homes and offices to be fair and just.Which is all fine in theory  but only sometimes works in practice. Bharara seems to be addressing would-be prosecutors on some pages (So your inquiry has come to an end) and a wider audience on others (And this of course is true everywhere in work and life, this attention to duty, detail and mission), and he doesnt seem to settle into a common register until the second half of the book.More vexing still: In pouring his memoir into the mold of an advice book, Bharara winds up speaking in aphorisms and bromides. Of all the counselors in literature to channel, why on earth would he choose Polonius?Yet here he is, on the importance of establishing an office with an ethical culture: Values are more about the forest than about the trees. On the importance of hard work: Ambitious people tend to think of every endeavor as a ballgame in which theyre going to pitch a perfect game. It doesnt work that way. To be successful, he goes on to explain, youve got to do it one pitch at a time.I half wonder whether Doing Justice works better as an audiobook, which Bharara personally reads aloud. I suspect hes had to read much of what hes written aloud, whether its for speeches, closing arguments or his podcast. What can seem profound in your earbuds can seem facile on the page. Just think of the difference between listening to a TED Talk and reading one.Is all of this book filled with Polonius gunk? No. Most chapters delight or provoke in some way, if you mentally redact the fortune-cookie sentences (of which there are mercifully fewer in the second half). Bharara divides Doing Justice into four parts  Inquiry, Accusation, Judgment and Punishment  thereby following the rhythms of a criminal case, and almost every chapter returns, either directly or via roundabout, to Bhararas basic contention, pithily summarized on Page 58: In the end, the law doesnt do justice. People do. (This is a popular theme of his podcast, too: that democracy depends on good-faith actors to function properly.) His book is ultimately about ordinary fallibility, and how those responsible for the dispensation of justice are regular humans, prone to act as humans do. It is filled with sobering stories about error and  in the more beautiful, memorable cases  ingenuity, determination, redemption.[ This book was one of our most anticipated titles of March. See the full list here. ]Theres a chapter about the difficulty of overcoming confirmation bias. Theres a chapter about the paradox of the cooperating witness, whos high in information and low in character  the linchpin of your case is also your Achilles heel. There are chapters about the futility of torture, the difficulty of determining fair sentences and the importance of walking away from a case, even when there are sunk costs.The chapter about the idiosyncrasies and hidden frailties of judges is particularly eye-opening. (A limitation Id never considered: Judges dont get to watch fellow judges in action. Their observational experience is largely stopped in time at the moment of being sworn in.) In fact, the entire Judgment section, about the courtroom phase of the judicial process, may be the books most captivating, for the very reasons Bharara finds an old-fashioned trial so captivating: Its cinema-ready. (Watch for the case of the battered prostitute seeking her stolen cash. Not since John Gutfreund played a $1 million round of Liars Poker has the serial number on a slip of American currency been so consequential.)Bharara, who enjoyed a high profile and (mostly) favorable press attention during his tenure from 2009 to 2017, does not show a lot of leg in this book, nor does he settle many scores. Yes, he tweaks The Wall Street Journal for highlighting the fact that he went after Raj Rajaratnam, a fellow immigrant from the same region of the world. My goodness, theres a South Asian defendant, and theres a South Asian prosecutor! he writes. You know where this happens every day? India. But he says virtually nothing about SAC Capitals Steven A. Cohen, whose wolfish appetite for insider information Bhararas office could never quite prove, and his words about Trump, the man who fired him, are few.And why is this, exactly? Considering Bhararas emphasis on old-fashioned values  duty, discretion, decency  and their application to the law, it seems strange that he wouldnt offer some words about what happened to the United States on Nov. 8, 2016, when the worst-faith actor imaginable was suddenly elected president. Did the country have a heart attack? Or is it merely undergoing a stress test?I wish hed said. What Bharara does offer, however, is an inspired and slightly perverse idea about how to salvage public discourse in 2019: We should take our cues from American criminal trials, in which both parties are obliged to consider flaws in their own arguments and understand the mind-set of the other side. Assertions must be evidence-based; research must be rigorous; decorum is paramount. You cant call your adversary a low-I.Q. person, he notes. You cant argue the prosecution is political; and you cant make sweeping biased statements.The first thing we do, lets revive all the lawyers. Bharara, as usual, makes a very strong case.Jennifer Senior, a former daily book critic for The Times, is now an Op-Ed columnist for the paper.DOING JUSTICE A Prosecutors Thoughts on Crime, Punishment, and the Rule of Law By Preet Bharara 345 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $27.95.OpinionPreet Bharara and Robert J. Jackson Jr.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders debate who would be the strongest contenders and discuss how Joe Biden and Beto ORourke each reached across party lines to a Republican.To the Editor:Re May the Best Woman Win, by Michelle Goldberg (column, Jan. 22):After the total disaster of Trumpism, America needs and deserves the empathy, compassion and fair-mindedness that only a woman can bring to the Oval Office. While I would vote for a ham sandwich over Donald Trump, 2020 and beyond will be the era of powerful women with governing experience and the patience and understanding it takes to lead the nation.Kamala Harris, Elizabeth Warren, Kirsten Gillibrand and most likely Amy Klobuchar are all capable candidates, and I expect there will be other women who will enter the fray. We are a long way off until the 2020 election, but I applaud the women who have thrown their hats into the ring now, as Americans need to get to know and evaluate their strengths and weaknesses and help choose the woman with the best chance of taking back the White House. The midterms in 2018 showed that women are on the move in American politics, and there is little doubt in my mind that the best woman will be our 46th president.Henry A. LowensteinNew YorkTo the Editor:While I wholeheartedly agree with Michelle Goldbergs argument that it would be nothing short of poetic justice for President Trump to lose re-election in 2020 to a female Democrat, I worry that she is too optimistic about a female Democrats chances in a general election, even if she can get through the competitive Democratic primary.While none of the three female senators currently in the race  Senators Elizabeth Warren, Kirsten Gillibrand and Kamala Harris  have been in the public eye as long as Hillary Clinton was, it is still likely that they will be as thoroughly criticized by the right-wing media ecosystem as Mrs. Clinton was, given how focused right-wing media has always been on tearing down female Democrats. This is apparent in its continued obsession with Nancy Pelosi and its focus on its newest target, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.While I am energized by the recent successes of female political candidates in the 2018 midterm elections, I fear that it will be difficult to overcome the constant right-wing media torrent.Shalaka JoshiNew YorkTo the Editor:Im hoping the 2020 Democratic primary will look like something the Republicans had in 2016: a large field of candidates that held multiple debates that allowed voters to compare candidates head to head. At this point, its best to ignore the prognosticators; anyone can fumble. We know this from past Joe Biden bids for the presidency.Four years ago Democrats saw the antithesis of democracy  a back-room, preordained front-runner whose critics were labeled either misogynists or de facto enablers of the G.O.P. Michael BuitrnLong Beach, Calif.To the Editor:Democratic Pack Views ORourke as Lone Wolf (front page, Jan. 20) portrays Beto ORourke as at best disloyal for complimenting but not endorsing a Democratic candidate in a Texas congressional race, while refusing to oppose Will Hurd, the Republican candidate. Mr. ORourke remained neutral in the race.The implicit argument was that Mr. Hurd should have been opposed simply because he was a Republican. Contrast this with Democrats criticisms of Republican House members and senators who blindly stick with President Trump, whatever he does, because he is a Republican.Frankly, I prefer a candidate who can recognize the possibility that candidates from both parties have merit to a candidate who feels that  for the sake of the party  he needs to support a party member regardless of merit.Lauri SteelLos Altos, Calif.To the Editor:Re A $200,000 Speech by Biden Was Priceless to a Republican (front page, Jan. 24):In this era of hyperpartisanship, its refreshing to read about former Vice President Joe Bidens praise of Representative Fred Upton, a Michigan Republican, during last falls congressional campaign, for supporting legislation that provided hundreds of millions of dollars in federal support for cancer research.As a registered Democrat and a cancer survivor, I for one am gratified that Mr. Biden had the political courage and personal decency to publicly thank Mr. Upton for his strong support of this landmark bill. This is just the sort of leadership that our country desperately needs.Robert SachsBostonTo the Editor:We are missing the importance of Joe Bidens appearing to support Fred Upton in his speech. Mr. Biden could have thanked Mr. Upton, and many others who supported Mr. Bidens medical research bill, at the time the bill was passed and since then. But since we know Mr. Upton crafted a bill in 2017 to repeal Obamacare, we see in full view Mr. Bidens lack of good judgment, which makes him a poor candidate to be president.If Mr. Uptons bill to repeal Obamacare had succeeded, and if new cancer research offered new treatments and hope, millions of uninsured Americans would not have been able to receive the new, novel, wonderful care. Gail ShorrWilmette, Ill.The writer is a retired pediatrician.To the Editor:In every presidential race since at least 1980, the more likable candidate won. (Although I despise Donald Trump, I dont claim that hes less likable than Hillary Clinton.)We liberals have Elizabeth Warren, who thinks that she can somehow win the next likability contest, despite her already divisive reputation and easily stereotyped policy positions. Who else is vying or expected to be vying for the Democratic nomination? Other coastal liberals, of course: Senators Kamala Harris, Cory Booker and Kirsten Gillibrand.Sigh.Republicans  even those from the coasts  are more likable to the varied geography of America. Democrats, on the other hand, win only when they nominate someone from outside their Northeast and West Coast strongholds. Barack Obama was from Illinois. Bill Clinton was from Arkansas. Jimmy Carter was from Georgia. Their likability and appeal stretched beyond the coasts in a way that the current crop of potential candidates wont.Senators Warren, Booker, Harris and Gillibrand wont win, and theyll draw Democratic resources and attention from someone who can. Here we go again.Jonathan CareyHoboken, N.J. To the Editor:Most of us with an ounce of sanity recognize that the current administration is a disaster. Our country needs a chief executive who can bring a steady hand to the tiller. Democrats, this is not the time for hope. It is the time for reason. It is the time to nominate someone who can win.The only candidate who can rescue us from the current national mayhem is Michael Bloomberg. Elizabeth Warren, Cory Booker, Kamala Harris, Julin Castro, Tulsi Gabbard, etc. Get real. Come down to earth. You simply do not have the throw-weight to tackle Donald Trump. Joe Biden, youre a good man. But youre a two-time loser. Stop dreaming. Democrats need to unite behind a viable candidate. And the only viable candidate for 2020 is Michael Bloomberg. He can go toe to toe with Mr. Trump. Mr. Bloomberg is Donald Trumps worst nightmare. Realistic Democrats, stop fooling around. If you want to win, Mr. Bloomberg is your candidate.Peter CotchRockport, Mass.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Ben DooleyDonald Keene, whose translations of Japanese literature into English and prodigious academic output helped define the study of the subject and made him a celebrity in Japan, died on Sunday in Tokyo. He was 96.The Donald Keene Center of Japanese Culture at Columbia University confirmed his death. He had spent much of his career at Columbia.Dr. Keene devoted his life to Japan, and his efforts to communicate the countrys rich literary tradition to the world  and elucidate it to its own people  made him a superstar there. More than a dozen Japanese television crews gathered to film the last session of his graduate course on traditional Japanese theater at Columbia.Despite having already received the kind of fame rarely achieved by academics in his home country, Dr. Keene transcended the boundary between celebrity and legend when he decided to become a Japanese citizen in the aftermath of the 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster that followed a deadly earthquake and tsunami  a gesture of solidarity with the nation that had already become his home in every sense except the official one.Born on June 18, 1922, in Brooklyn, Dr. Keene was a child prodigy. Entering Columbia on scholarship in 1938 at 16, he studied the classics of Western literature and honed his talent for languages on French and Greek. It was the beginning of a lifelong relationship with the university.Two years later, at a midtown bookshop, he first encountered the literature that would define his life, purchasing a 49-cent translation of Murasaki Shikibus The Tale of Genji, an 11th-century story of courtly love affairs and other intrigues, often described as the worlds first novel.The translation was magical, evoking a beautiful and distant world, he wrote of the encounter in a 2008 memoir of his relationship with Japan.The year was 1940, and the opening battles of what would become World War II raged across Europe. For Dr. Keene, a man who described himself as an intense pacifist, Murasakis romance was a refuge from all I hated in the world around me.But his dreams of ancient Japan quickly met the reality of the countrys modern military ambitions. Shortly after Pearl Harbor, Dr. Keene enlisted in the Navy, where he volunteered to study Japanese and began his formal education in the language at the University of California at Berkeley.His first experience as a translator came in Hawaii, where he worked on routine military reports captured from Japanese units in the Pacific theater. A box of bloodstained diaries from enemy soldiers gave him an initial insight into the emotional lives of the countrys people, he wrote in his memoir, musing that they were the first Japanese I ever really knew.His first visit to the country began on a beach in Okinawa on April 1, 1945. But instead of a genteel world of aristocratic amusements, he found himself plunged into one of the bloodiest battles of the Pacific campaign.His time as a wartime interrogator helped build a deep empathy for Japan and its people, a trait that served him well as he returned to Columbia to study the countrys literature, receiving a doctorate.Over his career, he translated many of the most important works of Japanese literature into lively and eminently readable English.His scholarship quickly became the foundation of the study of Japanese literature and culture in the English-speaking world.It would be virtually impossible to teach an undergraduate course on Japanese literature of any period without assigning books by him, Jay Rubin, an accomplished translator and scholar of Japan in his own right, wrote in a 1984 New York Times Book Review appraisal of Dawn to the West, Dr. Keenes two-volume examination of modern Japanese literature, a work that alone could stand as a respectable lifes work for any scholar.But Dr. Keene wrote much more. All told, he published around 25 books in English and many more in Japanese and other languages  ranging from academic studies to personal reminisces. Taken together they display a level of erudition and scholarship that made him a giant in his field not just abroad but also in Japan. In 1985, he became the first non-Japanese to receive the Yomiuri Prize for Literature for literary criticism for his historical survey of Japanese diaries, later published in English as Travelers of the Ages, a book inspired by the bloody wartime journals he encountered while serving in the Navy.The idea that a foreigner could make such an important contribution to a largely unexplored area of Japanese literature caught many in Japan off guard, Dr. Keene told The Times after receiving the award.People have said they expected a Japanese to have dealt with every aspect of Japanese literature, he said, and to have a foreigner doing it was surprising, and to some, annoying.But for most in Japan, including some of the countrys most famous living writers, he was a source of lively interest. He befriended prominent literary figures from the Nobel Prize winner Yasunari Kawabata to the troubled nationalist Yukio Mishima, who maintained a lively exchange of letters with Dr. Keene until Mishimas suicide after an abortive attempt to spark a military coup.I was a freak who spoke Japanese and could talk about literature, he told The Times in 2012 after deciding to live out the rest of his life in Japan.It was a choice he had long pondered, his adopted son, Seiki Keene, said in a statement to The Mainichi Shimbun, a Japanese newspaper. He is Dr. Keenes only immediate survivor.He devoted his life to Japanese literature and to become part of Japans soil, as a Japanese person, was my fathers longstanding dream, the son said.To the end, however, Dr. Keene could never completely leave behind his American identity, he told The Times in 2016, after the election of President Trump.If I were really Japanese I wouldnt have felt so excited or so terribly stricken by the recent American presidential election, he said at the time. There are things like that which make me feel Im an American really, and I can never be anything else.But, he added, its so much nicer to live here.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe Christian right doesnt like the president only for his judges. They like his style.By Katherine StewartMs. Stewart writes regularly about the political activities of evangelicals and other religious groups.The month before the 2018 midterms, a thousand theaters screened The Trump Prophecy, a film that tells the story of Mark Taylor, a former firefighter who claims that God told him in 2011 that Donald Trump would be elected president.At a critical moment in the film, just after the actor representing Mr. Taylor collapses in the flashing light of an epiphany, he picks up a Bible and turns to the 45th chapter of the book of Isaiah, which describes the anointment of King Cyrus by God. In the next scene, we hear Mr. Trump being interviewed on The 700 Club, a popular Christian television show.As Lance Wallnau, an evangelical author and speaker who appears in the film, once said, I believe the 45th president is meant to be an Isaiah 45 Cyrus, who will restore the crumbling walls that separate us from cultural collapse.Cyrus, in case youve forgotten, was born in the sixth century B.C.E. and became the first emperor of Persia. Isaiah 45 celebrates Cyrus for freeing a population of Jews who were held captive in Babylon. Cyrus is the model for a nonbeliever appointed by God as a vessel for the purposes of the faithful.The identification of the 45th president with an ancient Middle Eastern potentate isnt a fringe thing. The Trump Prophecy was produced with the help of professors and students at Liberty University, whose president, Jerry Falwell Jr., has been instrumental in rallying evangelical support for Mr. Trump. Jeanine Pirro of Fox News has picked up on the meme, as has Ron Dermer, the Israeli ambassador to the United States, among many others.As the Trump presidency falls under siege on multiple fronts, it has become increasingly clear that the so-called values voters will be among the last to leave the citadel. A lot of attention has been paid to the supposed paradox of evangelicals backing such an imperfect man, but the real problem is that our idea of Christian nationalism hasnt caught up with the reality. We still buy the line that the hard core of the Christian right is just an interest group working to protect its values. But what we dont get is that Mr. Trumps supposedly anti-Christian attributes and anti-democratic attributes are a vital part of his attraction.Todays Christian nationalists talk a good game about respecting the Constitution and Americas founders, but at bottom they sound as if they prefer autocrats to democrats. In fact, what they really want is a king. It is God that raises up a king, according to Paula White, a prosperity gospel preacher who has advised Mr. Trump.Ralph Drollinger, who has led weekly Bible study groups in the White House attended by Vice President Mike Pence and many other cabinet members, likes the word king so much that he frequently turns it into a verb. Get ready to king in our future lives, he tells his followers. Christian believers will  soon, I hope  become the consummate, perfect governing authorities!The great thing about kings like Cyrus, as far as todays Christian nationalists are concerned, is that they dont have to follow rules. They are the law. This makes them ideal leaders in paranoid times.When are they going to start rolling out the boxcars to start hauling off Christians? Tony Perkins, the president of the Family Research Council, asked in 2016. If youre hearing those boxcars pulling up in the distance, as it were, you dont merely overlook the antisocial qualities of a prospective leader, you embrace them as virtues.Mr. Trump himself well understands this longing for the hard hand of the despot. If you dont mind me saying so, youve gotten soft, he told Mr. Wallnau and other evangelical leaders during the 2016 campaign  much to their delight.Another important thing to understand about Cyrus is that he is not a queen. In the Christian nationalist world, legitimate political power is largely male power. Mr. Drollinger insists that the Bible describes only male leadership.Of course, there are those on the Christian right who have made a show of holding their noses while supporting Mr. Trump to advance their aims of stacking the Supreme Court or ending abortion. But we are kidding ourselves if we think their continuing support for him is purely transactional.I have attended dozens of Christian nationalist conferences and events over the past two years. And while I have heard plenty of comments casting doubt on the more questionable aspects of Mr. Trumps character, the gist of the proceedings almost always comes down to the belief that he is a miracle sent straight from heaven to bring the nation back to the Lord. I have also learned that resistance to Mr. Trump is tantamount to resistance to God.This isnt the religious right we thought we knew. The Christian nationalist movement today is authoritarian, paranoid and patriarchal at its core. They arent fighting a culture war. Theyre making a direct attack on democracy itself.They want it all. And in Mr. Trump, they have found a man who does not merely serve their cause, but also satisfies their craving for a certain kind of political leadership. Katherine Stewart (@kathsstewart) is the author of The Good News Club: The Christian Rights Stealth Assault on Americas Children.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Peter BakerWASHINGTON  President Trump delivered a message of bipartisan unity on Tuesday night in his first address to Congress in the new era of divided government, but signaled that he would continue to wage war for the hard-line immigration policies that have polarized the capital and the nation.In a nationally televised speech that toggled between conciliation and confrontation, Mr. Trump presented himself as a leader who could work across party lines even as he pressed lawmakers to build a wall along the nations southwestern border that leaders of the newly empowered congressional Democrats have adamantly rejected.We must reject the politics of revenge, resistance and retribution, and embrace the boundless potential of cooperation, compromise and the common good, the president said. Together, we can break decades of political stalemate. We can bridge old divisions, heal old wounds, build new coalitions, forge new solutions and unlock the extraordinary promise of Americas future.Any hopes for a newfound spirit of cooperation, however, seemed elusive as the president and Democrats spent the hours before, during and after the address exchanging partisan political fire, making clear that ritualistic calls for across-the-aisle collaboration were unlikely to transform an environment that has turned increasingly toxic.Republicans jumped to their feet at the presidents calls to curb immigration, limit late-term abortions and ensure that the United States does not turn to socialism, even chanting U-S-A, U-S-A a couple of times as if at a Trump campaign rally. That sounds so good, he exulted.Speaker Nancy Pelosi, sitting behind Mr. Trump for the first time, and other Democrats largely remained in their seats without applauding and expressed only tepid enthusiasm even for his mention of goals intended to appeal to them, like infrastructure and paid parental leave. Ms. Pelosi maintained a polite, even amused smile on her face for much of the speech.But the evening was filled with political theater as the president introduced World War II veterans, Holocaust survivors, the Apollo 11 astronaut Buzz Aldrin, a 10-year-old cancer survivor, a police officer shot seven times at last falls synagogue massacre in Pittsburgh and the teary-eyed relatives of a couple killed by an illegal immigrant, all sitting with the first lady, Melania Trump.The change in the power structure in a Capitol long dominated by men was on display as Ms. Pelosi and scores of House Democratic women wore white, the color of the suffrage movement, reflecting the fact that 131 women were sworn into the new Congress, the most in American history.When Mr. Trump noted this breakthrough, the women leapt to their feet, cheering, dancing and high-fiving each other. Thats really great, he said. Congratulations.He made no direct mention of the issues that may yet come to dominate the year, such as the Russia investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, or the parallel inquiries that House Democrats intend to conduct into his campaigns ties with Russia and efforts to impede investigations.Instead, he alluded to them only in passing, but pointedly. An economic miracle is taking place in the United States, he said, and the only thing that can stop it are foolish wars, politics or ridiculous partisan investigations.But Mr. Trump indicated no retreat from his almost singular pursuit of a border wall, directly taking on Ms. Pelosi, who has called it immoral. He devoted 15 minutes of the hour-and-22-minute speech to immigration with no concession to Democratic priorities like a path to citizenship for immigrants brought into the country illegally as children.This is a moral issue, Mr. Trump said as Ms. Pelosi sat unmoved behind him. No issue better illustrates the divide between Americas working class and Americas political class than illegal immigration, he added. Wealthy politicians and donors push for open borders while living their lives behind walls and gates and guards.In the official Democratic response, Stacey Abrams, who lost a close race for governor of Georgia in November, scorned the idea of unity from a president who has practiced the politics of division. We know bipartisanship could craft a 21st-century immigration plan, she said, but this administration chooses to cage children and tear families apart.Ms. Abrams, who is African-American, challenged Mr. Trumps history of racial provocation, saying, We must hold everyone from the highest offices to our families accountable for racist words and deeds and call racism what it is  wrong.The presidents speech, built on a theme of choosing greatness, came at a pivotal moment halfway through the presidents term as he seeks to regain momentum after the midterm election defeat that handed control of the House to Democrats and after his failed effort to use a partial government shutdown to extract money for the wall.Stung by his retreat on the government shutdown, Mr. Trump has hardly been in the mood for collaboration with the other party. As he and his team drafted his address in recent days, he has groused about the text, complaining that it was too gentle on Democrats, according to people briefed on the matter.New York Times reporters analyzed the 45th presidents second State of the Union Speech on Tuesday.The president insisted on sharpening some of the lines in the speech and rebuffed aides, who urged him to congratulate Ms. Pelosi on her ascension to the speakership.During an off-the-record lunch for television anchors on Tuesday before the speech, Mr. Trump offered scathing assessments of a number of leading Democrats, including some lining up to run against him next year.He dismissed former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. as dumb, called Senator Chuck Schumer of New York a nasty son of a bitch and mocked Gov. Ralph Northam of Virginia, who he said choked like a dog at a news conference where Mr. Northam tried to explain a racist yearbook photograph, according to multiple people in the room.Democrats did not wait for the address to pan it. It seems every year the president wakes up and discovers the desire for unity on the morning of the State of the Union, then the president spends the other 364 days of the year dividing us, and sowing a state of disunion, Mr. Schumer said on the Senate floor. He added, The blatant hypocrisy of this president calling for unity is that he is one of the chief reasons Americans feel so divided now.Mr. Trump fired back at Mr. Schumer via Twitter. I see Schumer is already criticizing my State of the Union speech, even though he hasnt seen it yet, the president wrote. Hes just upset that he didnt win the Senate, after spending a fortune, like he thought he would. Too bad we werent given more credit for the Senate win by the media!Mr. Trump arrived at this point in his presidency with the approval of just 37 percent of the public, according to Gallup. In the past four decades, the only times a president headed into a State of the Union address with as little or less support were in 1983 when Ronald Reagan was struggling with a painful recession and in 2007 and 2008 when George W. Bush was trying to turn around the Iraq war.Mr. Trump is the only president in the history of Gallup polling to have never drawn the support of a majority of the public at any point in his first two years in office. But while he is the fourth president in a row to lose at least one house of Congress during a midterm election, Bill Clinton and Barack Obama both bounced back to win re-election, and Mr. Trump has privately expressed confidence that he will, too.transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Clare Toeniskoetter, Alexandra Leigh Young and Annie Brown, and edited by Lisa TobinLike President Trump, the last three presidents all lost at least one house of Congress at a midterm election. Their subsequent speeches offered a blueprint for what came next.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, Im Michael Barbaro. This is The Daily. Today: In his first State of the Union address since losing control of Congress, the president repeatedly spoke of bipartisan unity. But a history of these speeches suggests that its everything else he said that will best predict how he actually governs. Its Wednesday, February 6. Mark?mark landlerYeah, Michael?michael barbaroHey.mark landlerHow are you?michael barbaroGood. Happy State of the Union.mark landlerSame to you.michael barbaroI really dont like this language people use, S.O.T.U.mark landlerYeah, its really awful.michael barbaroAwful. So lets not do that.mark landlerIts kind of a dismal evening anyway, and calling it S.O.T.U. just sort of deepens the gloom that hangs over the whole thing.michael barbaroAnd yeah, why is it so gloomy?mark landlerI dont know. I mean, you wouldnt believe it there were, like, 50 people in the meeting today for S.O.T.U. planning.michael barbaroWhat did we say about that word?mark landlerO.K.michael barbaroO.K., everybody good? Mark, whats the significance of this particular State of the Union in your mind?mark landlerFor President Trump, this is the first State of the Union address hes delivered since his party was swept out of power in the midterm election last November. And so its the first time hes facing a divided Congress. And the president is really forced to conduct a very public reset of his presidency to take account of a divided Washington. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president bill clinton)Mr. President, Mr. Speaker. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerIts not a unique situation, by any stretch. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): Madame Speaker, Vice President Cheney, members of Congress, distinguished guests and fellow citizens.archived recording (president barack obama)Members of Congress, distinguished guests and fellow Americans. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerAll three of Mr. Trumps immediate predecessors faced the same situation. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president bill clinton)Again, we are here in the sanctuary of democracy. ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): The rite of custom brings us together at a defining hour. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerWith State of the Union addresses they gave after their party suffered defeats in midterm elections. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): When decisions are hard and courage is needed.archived recording (president barack obama)I believe we can, and I believe we must. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerEach of them approached the situation in different ways. And in each case, it provided a sort of a telling glimpse, a blueprint for how they were going to behave over the coming two years of their presidencies. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): And this is the business before us tonight.archived recording (president barack obama)Thats what the people who sent us here expect of us.archived recording (president bill clinton)Well, my fellow Americans, thats my agenda for Americas future. [END PLAYBACK]michael barbaroSo take us through the examples of these last three presidents who have given these speeches after they lost a midterm election. How have they approached the speech?mark landlerWell, lets start with Bill Clinton. Bill Clinton gave his State of the Union address in January 1995  [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recordingDemocrats lost the House, they lost the Senate. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerThree months after his party suffered a devastating defeat in the midterm elections. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recordingThe Democratic chairman David Wilhelm said, simply, we got our butts kicked. Not one incumbent Republican lost. The anti-Clinton tide was fueled largely by frustration. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerTime Magazine put him on the cover under the headline The Incredible Shrinking President. Journalists even asked him whether he was still relevant anymore. And so this relatively young, untested president was dealt a very serious blow. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recordingMr. Speaker, the president of the United States. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerAnd he really came into his State of the Union address acknowledging that fact. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president bill clinton)If we agree on nothing else tonight, we must agree that the American people certainly voted for change in 1992 and in 1994. As I look out at you, I know how some of you must have felt in 1992. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerBill Clinton took a very contrite tone. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president bill clinton)In this effort, I am trying to say that I have made my mistakes. And I have learned, again, the importance of humility in all human endeavor. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerSo this was a president who admitted that he had screwed up and he pledged to learn from this experience. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president bill clinton)I think we all agree that we have to change the way the government works. Lets make it smaller, less costly and smarter leaner and not meaner. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerAnd even more than that, he pledged to take seriously the message that this incoming Republican majority brought with it. He acknowledged that, to some extent, the era of big government was over. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president bill clinton)And were working on getting rid of unnecessary regulations and making them more sensible. The programs and regulations that have outlived their usefulness should go. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerBill Kristol, a conservative commentator, commented after this speech was given that it was the most conservative State of the Union address any Democratic president had ever delivered. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president bill clinton)This is a very, very great country. And our best days are still to come. Thank you, and God bless you all. [END PLAYBACK]michael barbaroSo how much did Clintons message at this State of the Union this conciliatory tone, these promises of bipartisanship and an acknowledgment of this conservative agenda how much did it predict how he was going to govern for the next two years?mark landlerSo, in fact, Bill Clinton did adjust. He did govern more as a centrist. He did pursue policies where he tried to find some common ground. And in the end, by moving toward his opponents, he wound up being very successful. And two years later, he was re-elected by a comfortable margin over his Republican opponent, Bob Dole. And Newt Gingrich, his antagonist the man who sat behind him that night at the speech wound up being the wounded figure, because he had gone to war with President Clinton over a government shutdown, and he ended up shouldering the blame, not Clinton. In other words, the State of the Union actually showed that this was a president who was learning on the job, who was willing to adjust course, and came out of it victorious. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recordingWashington turned upside down. The Democrats in, Rumsfeld out tonight on Washington Week. ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): If you look at race by race, it was close. The cumulative effect, however, was not too close. It was a thumping. Even the president could not find a silver lining this time. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerTwelve years later, Bill Clintons successor, George W. Bush, found himself in a very similar situation. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recordingRepublicans licked their wounds. Don Rumsfeld lost his job. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerThe Iraq War has gone very badly. Hes been widely condemned for his handling of Hurricane Katrina. And in the midterm elections of 2006, the voters deliver a brutal message. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recordingI think you could say the driving force was that old refrain, Im mad as hell, and Im not going to take it anymore. And thats what we heard. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerThey send Congress back into the control of the Democrats. And President Bush turns up for his State of the Union address. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (speaker nancy pelosi)The president of the United States. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerFacing House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): And tonight, I have the high privilege and distinct honor of my own as the first president to begin the State of the Union message with these words: Madame Speaker. [END PLAYBACK] Hes extremely gracious to her. He congratulates her. He refers to her father, who was a Democratic lawmaker from Baltimore, and the pride he would have felt if he had seen his daughter presiding in the chamber that night. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): But nothing could compare with the sight of his only daughter, Nancy. [END PLAYBACK] And then he delivers a speech. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): Some in this chamber are new to the House and the Senate, and I congratulate the Democrat majority. [END PLAYBACK] Where he takes account of the bitterness that Iraq has caused and the opposition that it has stirred up. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): With the distance of time, we find ourselves debating the causes of conflict and the course we have followed. [END PLAYBACK] Not just among Democrats, but among members of his own party. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): Ive spoken with many of you in person. I respect you and the arguments youve made. We went into this largely united in our assumptions and in our convictions. And whatever you voted for, you did not vote for failure. [END PLAYBACK] And he, in effect, pleads for more time. He says that in this difficult situation, he and his military advisers have decided on a troop surge. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): So were deploying reinforcements of more than 20,000 additional soldiers and Marines to Iraq. [END PLAYBACK] And he basically asks for time to get this war right. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): Our country is pursuing a new strategy in Iraq, and I ask you to give it a chance to work. And I ask you to support our troops in the field and those on their way. [END PLAYBACK]michael barbaroSo President Bush uses this speech to acknowledge the unhappiness in the country. But unlike Clinton after the midterms, he doesnt change his approach. In fact, he leans into it and doubles down on it when it comes to the war in Iraq. [AUDIO PLAYBACK] ARCHIVED RECORDING (PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH): Our cause in the world is right. And tonight, that cause goes on. God bless. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerAnd he also sticks to it afterward. So this speech is a very accurate blueprint for what the rest of the Bush presidency looks like. He does send the troops, they wind up having more success than many of the critics expected, and this becomes the way the United States winds down the war in Iraq. He really lays out the end game in Iraq in this State of the Union address. It actually proves to be a very, very accurate predictor of how things play out. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recordingRight now, were looking at a live picture of the U.S. Capitol, where the Republicans will seize control of the House of Representatives. Picking up more than 60 seats now. Ohios John Boehner now stands to become the next speaker, replacing Nancy Pelosi. He already got a call. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerAnd then came President Obama, who spoke before Congress in January 2011, three months after his party lost control of Congress. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recordingThe American people have sent an unmistakable message to him tonight, and that message is change course. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerAnd left this young president very much on his back foot. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president barack obama)Tonight, I want to begin by congratulating the men and women of the 112th Congress as well as your new speaker, John Boehner. [END PLAYBACK]michael barbaroAnd how did Obamas State of the Union confront that?mark landlerWell, Obama responds to this setback, to this defeat, not by being contrite or acknowledging error. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president barack obama)For the challenges we face are bigger than party, bigger than politics. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerBut by, in effect, pushing past it. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president barack obama)At stake right now is not who wins the next election after all, we just had an election. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerBy brushing it aside, by saying there are bigger things that we need to focus on than petty politics. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president barack obama)At stake is whether new jobs and industries take root in this country or somewhere else. [END PLAYBACK]michael barbaroEssentially, by ignoring it.mark landlerIndeed. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president barack obama)The future is ours to win. But to get there, we cant just stand still. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerSo it was a very soaring message that was in keeping with the way President Obama ran for office, but one that didnt necessarily acknowledge the defeat that his party had just suffered.michael barbaroSo does the way that Obama responds to this division in this speech by kind of ignoring it, by not fully acknowledging the new political terrain he has to confront does this forecast how he ends up working with Congress for the next two years?mark landlerI think it does quite accurately. Because if you look at what happens in the years after this, President Obama never really does form a good working relationship. He never really does roll up his sleeves and attempt to find much common ground with Republicans in Congress. And so, to some extent, these grand ideas remain just that grand ideas, because he wasnt able to work with Republicans to translate them into more of a tangible reality.michael barbaroSo in that sense, the speech was a very honest and accurate predictor.mark landlerExactly. Indeed.michael barbaroO.K. So it is 7:52, Mark a little over an hour before President Trump gives his State of the Union. Given the history youve just described, what do you expect his message to be now that he has divided government?mark landlerWe dont know exactly what hes going to say, but we do know that whatever their differences, all three of his predecessors issued a call for unity. Unity is the one theme that we can almost certainly expect to hear in virtually any State of the Union address. But whats really interesting is less that than whats between the lines, whats the subtext or the nuance in the State of the Union address. Thats where you can really see what the president plans to do, how he plans to govern, what blueprint or what predicate hes putting in place. So whats going to be interesting in President Trumps address is not a call for unity. Its almost certainly going to be there. Its the other things that are in the speech that are going to really tell you what we can expect.michael barbaroSo, Mark, thank you for now. We will talk to you after Trumps State of the Union in, I guess, an hour or two.mark landlerLook forward to it.michael barbaro So, Mark, what did President Trump do tonight?mark landlerWell, when President Trump took the rostrum in the House chamber tonight  [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)Thank you very much. Madame Speaker. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerHe uttered the phrase Madame Speaker in deference to Nancy Pelosi, but he avoided giving her any further congratulations on taking up her position. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)We meet tonight at a moment of unlimited potential. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerHe did, nevertheless, start off with [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)As we begin a new Congress, I stand here ready to work with you to achieve historic breakthroughs for all Americans. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerA pretty standard call for bipartisanship and for unity. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)Hoping that we will govern not as two parties, but as one nation. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerHe said at one point [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)Victory is not winning for our party [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerVictory is not winning for our party, victory is winning for our country. From there, he sort of segued into the economic achievements of his administration. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)In just over two years since the election, we have launched an unprecedented economic boom. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerBut at that point, he took a distinct turn in tone. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)An economic miracle is taking place in the United States, and the only thing that can stop it [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerHe basically said at this point [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)Are foolish wars, politics or ridiculous partisan investigations. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerThere cant be any cooperation on legislation if theres going to be what he called ridiculous partisan investigations of his presidency. This was a reference not only to potential future investigations by Congress, but also the Mueller investigation. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)If there is going to be peace and legislation, there cannot be war and investigation. It just doesnt work that way. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerAnd he actually put a fairly menacing tone on it. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)Now is the time for bipartisan action. Believe it or not, we have already proven that thats possible. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerFrom there, he turns to a more bipartisan issue criminal justice reform. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)Criminal justice reform they said it couldnt be done. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerBut almost immediately [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)Now Republicans and Democrats must join forces again to confront an urgent national crisis. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerHe then segues into immigration, talks about the virtues and importance of building a wall. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)Wealthy politicians and donors push for open borders. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerAnd accuses the political elite of being divided from ordinary, working-class Americans. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)While living their lives behind walls and gates and guards. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerSo the language here is extremely uncompromising. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)Simply put walls work, and walls save lives. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerAnd this toggling continues throughout the speech. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)Two weeks ago, the United States officially recognized the legitimate government of Venezuela. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerAt one point, hes talking about the global coalition to force out a tyrant, an autocrat in Venezuela. And yet in his next breath [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)Here in the United States, we are alarmed by the new calls to adopt socialism in our country. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerHes likening this new class of Democrats in Congress to socialists. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)America was founded on liberty and independence. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerAnd saying, America will never be a socialist country. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)We are born free, and we will stay free. [END PLAYBACK]michael barbaroBut it sounds like you think that the conciliatory language is just the obligatory language of the State of the Union, and its the harder-edged stuff that we should be listening to and thinking about in relation to past State of the Unions that you outlined before.mark landlerI do. I think that if you look at the things the president talks about that are more conciliatory, they tend to be on the level of symbolism. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)In recent years, we have made remarkable progress in the fight against H.I.V. and AIDS. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerA campaign to fight AIDS with no dollar sign attached to it. A campaign to fight cancer in children with no specifics attached to it. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)My budget will ask Congress for $500 million over the next 10 years to fund this critical, life-saving research. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerWhile the areas where hes hard-edged are really the ones that matter to the future direction of governance and of his relationship with Congress. Whether he resolves this issue over funding the wall and, more broadly, whether he and the Democrats ever come to terms on immigration is really a core issue of how the rest of the Trump presidency will play out. That, much more than these conciliatory stories, these nice images, are really what matter in this speech. And I think the speechwriters were very careful to lard this speech with this kind of uplifting material. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)In 2019, we also celebrate 50 years since brave young pilots flew a quarter of a million miles through space to plant the American flag on the face of the moon. [END PLAYBACK] To make it more attractive to a broad audience while also speaking to the presidents political base. But make no mistake this speech was targeted to the political base. It was meant to mollify that base. And I think its important that we not lose sight of that reality.michael barbaroSo where does this speech fit into the history of State of the Unions that have come after the dawn of divided government?mark landlerWell, I think whats most significant is that there is really no acknowledgment in this speech of the changed circumstances. Theres no acknowledgment here that President Trump faces a new political reality, that he has to do business with the Democrats if he wants to get any significant legislation passed. This is the speech given by a president who is behaving very much like he did the week he was inaugurated, when he had a unified Congress under his control.michael barbaroDoes that make this, then, an Obama-like State of the Union?mark landlerI think the difference with President Obama is that, while he did not suggest that the defeat in the midterms was really going to change how he approached governing, he did at least acknowledge the fact that he had suffered an electoral setback in the midterms. In Mr. Trumps case, he didnt acknowledge the defeat he suffered in the midterm elections except in a highly indirect way. And it was actually one of the most remarkable moments of the evening. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)No one has benefited more from our thriving economy than women. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerPresident Trump was talking about the increasing numbers of women in the workplace, including in Congress. And spontaneously, this group of young, female Democratic lawmakers rose in unison and began chanting U.S.A and cheering and clapping. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)Very good. And congratulations, thats great. [END PLAYBACK]mark landlerAnd the president broke into a smile and appeared, in a funny way, to be taking credit for their presence in the House which, of course, is deeply ironic, because the reason theyre in the House is because they were elected largely as a repudiation of him. So I think if youre looking for any signs of a newly pragmatic president or a president who will take heed of some of the concerns of the opposing party, I dont think we saw any of that in the speech tonight. And I would not expect to see any of that in his governing style over the next couple of years.michael barbaroWell, Mark, it is almost 1:00 a.m. We are really grateful to you, thank you so much.mark landlerThank you, Michael. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recording (president donald trump)Thank you. God bless you. And God bless America. Thank you very much. [END PLAYBACK]michael barbaroHeres what else you need to know today. On Tuesday, in the latest sign of progress toward a peace deal, leaders of the Taliban met with former high-ranking leaders of the Afghan government, including its former president in Moscow. The session excluded the leaders of Afghanistans current government, who the Taliban views as a US puppet but was still the most significant contact between the Taliban and Afghan leaders since the US drove the Taliban from power in 2001. In a surprising development during the negotiations, the Taliban said it now respected womens rights, including the right to education and work, despite having banned women from public life when the group was in power. And. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recordingFor example, you wrote in the 1990s that climate change is nothing more than a major environmental boogey man and the greenhouse effort is a controversial theory pushed by environmental groups. You still stand by those assertions? [END PLAYBACK]michael barbaroDuring a heated confirmation hearing on Tuesday, senators from both parties questioned the past writings of Naomi Rowe, president Trumps nominee to replace Brett Kavanaugh on the powerful federal appeals court in Washington. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recordingSenator Leahy, those are statements from college, as you said, a few decades old when I think some of these issues were more hotly debated. And, no, I mean, I think the science has become much more conclusive over time. Conclusive in what way? Well, I think theyre my understanding is that theres an overwhelming scientific consensus that there is climate change. [END PLAYBACK]michael barbaroSenators repeatedly asked Rowe to explain a series of provocative columns she wrote as a college student expressing skepticism about global warming and calling equality between women and men a dangerous concept. [AUDIO PLAYBACK]archived recordingA dangerous feminist ideal is that women are created equal? Senator, I very much regret that statement and Ive always believed strongly in the equality of women and men and for equal rights and opportunities for women. Im honestly not sure why I wrote that in college. [END PLAYBACK]michael barbaroThats it for The Daily. Im Michael Barbaro. See you tomorrow.After presidents suffer setbacks in midterms, they often reach out to the victorious opposition with words of conciliation, however artificial or short-lived they may be. In Mr. Trumps case, he opened this period of partisan power sharing with a relentless confrontation over his proposed border wall, resulting in a record-breaking 35-day partial government shutdown.That impasse nearly cost Mr. Trump his opportunity to deliver his State of the Union address, as Ms. Pelosi refused to let him come to the House chamber as long as federal agencies were closed and workers unpaid. Mr. Trump backed down and accepted a measure reopening the government for three weeks, but negotiations in the interim have made no more progress toward winning money for his wall  and the government could close again on Feb. 15.Given that, Mr. Trumps calls for unity were almost surely destined to fall on deaf ears. Even Republicans have publicly rebuked him lately for his plans to withdraw troops from Syria and Afghanistan, and party leaders have pressed him not to declare a national emergency bypassing Congress to build the wall.Among those invited by the president to join the first lady during the speech was Joshua Trump, a sixth-grade student from Wilmington, Del., who has been bullied in school due to his last name, according to the White House.Democrats were making points with their guests, as well. Among those they invited were air traffic controllers who went unpaid during the government shutdown, illegal immigrants who worked at Mr. Trumps properties and transgender soldiers who will be banned under the presidents new policy.In addition to Ms. Abrams, other Democrats sought to get in on the action. Senator Kamala Harris of California, who is running for president, delivered her own response shortly before the speech, while Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, who may also run, delivered his afterward.In his address, Mr. Trump assailed Democrats like Mr. Northam for comments in support of easing restrictions on late-term abortions and called for federal legislation cracking down on such procedures, a nod to Mr. Trumps conservative base. He made no mention of the racist medical school yearbook picture that has threatened Mr. Northams political career, after aides cautioned him about raising that issue.Mr. Trump also sought to frame the opposition Democrats as too extreme, suggesting that the country was in danger of a socialist takeover. Here in the United States, we are alarmed by new calls to adopt socialism in our country, he said, as Republican lawmakers booed. We are born free and we will stay free. Tonight we renew our resolve that America will never be a socialist country.The president highlighted what he sees as the accomplishments of his first two years in office, including a growing economy, rising energy production, increased military spending, deregulation and tax cuts. He pressed Congress to approve his new trade pact with Canada and Mexico updating the North American Free Trade Agreement.Mr. Trump did not outline the traditional laundry list of new initiatives, the way other presidents have, but he did plan to make a national commitment to end transmission of the virus that causes AIDS, with a goal of stopping its spread in the United States by 2030. He repeated past calls for bipartisan measures to rebuild Americas crumbling infrastructure, curb the cost of prescription drugs and approve paid parental leave.The president also talked about his goal of bringing an end to the endless wars in places like Syria and Afghanistan, the threat he sees from Iran and his bid to force President Nicols Maduro of Venezuela to step down. He announced that he would meet for the second time with North Koreas leader, Kim Jong-un, in Vietnam on Feb. 27-28 to seek his nuclear disarmament.Mr. Trump ended his address with an uncharacteristic effort at poetry, an ode to America and its common purpose. I am asking you to choose greatness, he said. No matter the trials we face, no matter the challenges to come, we must go forward together.Michael Grynbaum contributed reporting from New York, and Maggie Haberman and Emily Baumgaertner from Washington.Follow Peter Baker on Twitter: @peterbakernyt.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Julie BosmanCHICAGO  On Day 1 of what would become the longest government shutdown in the countrys history, Mary Kelly had a typically American view of the situation: She was optimistic. As an employee of the Internal Revenue Service, she had been through shutdowns before. This one would not last long, she figured.On Day 24, weeks into her mandatory furlough, she applied for unemployment benefits.Ten days after that, she left her home in the Chicago suburbs, rode a train downtown and joined demonstrators on a windswept Federal Plaza, her cheeks mottled pink from the cold.I was never scared during shutdowns in the past, Ms. Kelly, a union officer, said during the protest on Thursday, wearing woolen gloves and clutching a sign. But now who knows whats going to happen?And then on Day 35, with no resolution seemingly in sight, she had her answer in news leaked from Washington: The shutdown was finally coming to an end.Im waiting with bated breath, she said on Friday, glued to her phone for bulletins that congressional leaders and President Trump had reached a deal to temporarily reopen the government. Hopefully well get a paycheck out of it.When the partial government shutdown began at midnight on Dec. 22, it left about 800,000 federal employees out of work, with many continuing to show up at their jobs even without the prospect of immediate paychecks. In the beginning, the episode was easily shrugged off as another Washington dysfunction: the result of an impetuous president making an outsize demand for a border wall, a dispute fueled by partisan bickering and likely to wrap up in a few days.Initial nonchalance gave way to worry. Worry gave way to panic. And before it ended in Mr. Trumps retreat from an insistence on wall funding nearly six weeks after it began, the government shutdown rapidly reordered American life.It showed how far the tentacles of the federal government reach into ordinary lives around the nation, and how even the richest country on Earth could be one domestic crisis away from bread lines. And it may not be final yet, government workers reminded themselves even as they celebrated, as the three-week deal does not preclude another impasse.Although over for now, the shutdown inflicted pain that ran deep.Stunned middle-class people were forced to moonlight, visit food pantries for groceries and apply for unemployment benefits. A stable government job suddenly felt high risk.Some of the federal employees who went unpaid for weeks missed mortgage payments, piled up credit card debt and worried about financial doom.Back pay will make most government workers whole again, but the deal cannot undo all the effects. Many business owners who rely on government workers saw their profits dry up. Many people saw their credit ratings nose-dive. Full of shutdown stress, many saw their marriages fray and noticed as their anxieties were transferred to their children.The shutdown revealed unflattering truths about Americans finances: Even neighbors and friends with steady paychecks and the markers of comfortable lives were suddenly surviving hand-to-mouth, teetering on the edge of despair.I have to come here and see people who are homeless and who biked here, as Im pulling up in my Subaru, said Jenny Lunsted, a mother of two and the wife of an unpaid petty officer with the United States Coast Guard, who browsed shelves of canned pumpkin and fresh tomatoes at a food pantry in Stock Island, Fla., on Tuesday. Its heartbreaking because you feel almost unworthy and embarrassed at the same time.The effects cascaded far beyond the plight of individual workers, attracting the attention of Americans oblivious to the outsize role the government plays in their lives.Federal agencies stalled projects. Plane crashes went uninvestigated. Research studies were deferred. A shortage of air traffic controllers caused flight delays across the Northeast on Friday, snarling air travel at some of the countrys busiest airports.A lack of workers left some of the countrys most treasured sites in a state of neglect. That included Yosemite National Park, the place the pioneering naturalist John Muir described as a temple of canyons, rushing waterfalls and sun-streaked granite cliffs.Because of the shutdown, the park was hanging by a thread, said Ken Yager, 59, a professional climber who came to Yosemite more than four decades ago and never left the area.All but a skeleton crew of rangers at the park were furloughed, the visitor center was closed and no one answered the phone at the park headquarters. Nearby, the towns that rely on Yosemite tourism for their livelihoods were hurting. Mr. Yager, who runs a cleaning service, laid off most of his employees.Every day the shutdown stretched on, Mr. Yager said, people were more and more desperate.It has been more than six weeks since the blustery Oval Office confrontation on Dec. 11 between Mr. Trump and Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House speaker, and Senator Chuck Schumer, the minority leader.Mr. Trump, reiterating his campaign pledge to build a border wall, had said he would take the blame for shutting down the government if Democrats rebuffed his effort. I will take the mantle, he said in a vow that was replayed on cable news countless times. I will be the one to shut it down.And it did shut down, in the early morning of Dec. 22. The shuttered departments included Treasury, Agriculture, Homeland Security, Interior, State, Housing and Urban Development, Transportation, Commerce and Justice. More than 420,000 federal employees began to work without pay; another 380,000 were furloughed to wait for a resolution from home.Yet the notion of a government shutdown still felt to many like a familiar political ritual rather than a fear-inducing event, at least at first. This shutdown marked at least the 21st time in the last four decades that the government has not passed some form of a spending bill on time.In the first days and weeks, a tangle of complications began to emerge.Sheila Bailey, 73, had set her retirement for Dec. 31, after working for 34 years as a scientist at NASAs John H. Glenn Research Center in Cleveland. And indeed, the date came and went, and Ms. Bailey is spending her days at home.But she found herself in an unusual limbo: She was not sure if she was a federal worker on furlough or a retired federal worker.Its just incredible all the complications, she said, talking of the difficulties of signing up for Medicare Part B when she could not get the necessary paperwork from NASA. Its a mess.The shutdowns effects even came over the airwaves, in one case in the form of an off-color word. At a community radio station in Kentucky, a host accidentally played an Alanis Morissette song with an obscenity in it. The station director pointed out that, given a shutdown, the Federal Communications Commission was unlikely to be fielding complaints.In Southern California, Joseph Darling, 33, is a member of an elite federal firefighting crew that uses chain saws and hand tools to attack the nations wildfires. He would normally spend this time of year clearing away brush to help diminish future fire danger.But during the shutdown, he was not permitted to do that. Instead, he was confined to his office, waiting to be called to an emergency. Were ultimately missing those windows of opportunity, Mr. Darling said this past week. He could not say that the shutdown would cause a fire to break out, but he could not rule out the possibility that the risk of fire had risen because of the bureaucratic standoff.On Jan. 11, three weeks into the shutdown, the consequences became very real to federal employees as many missed their first paycheck.Johnny Zuagar, 39, of Upper Marlboro, Md., has worked for the Census Bureau for 15 years as a statistician dealing with monthly retail sales reports. At home without a job to report to, he was now dealing with his own finances.You have got to have food, and you have got to have gas in the car, and your kids still need stuff, Mr. Zuagar said. It might take them a while to come get the house, so you work with the mortgage company.Critical to getting through the shutdown, Mr. Zuagar said, was putting all of that days anxiety behind him by late afternoon, when he picked up his boys  ages 8, 6 and 1.Tiarra Carey, an accountant with the Department of Homeland Security, began to trim household expenses. Her older children  ages 13, 11, 8 and 3  quickly discovered that life had changed. They were used to stopping at Chick-fil-A or going ice skating. Ms. Carey said they could no longer afford that kind of thing.For contract workers, the situation became especially dire. Unlike federal employees, contract workers are not guaranteed back pay. Voyt Quinn, 55, typically empties trash cans at the National Zoo in Washington, D.C., earning $13.55 an hour. But when the zoo closed, Mr. Quinn found himself home, racking his brain about how to make ends meet.His employer, Friends of the National Zoo, gave him a small loan to live on. But he will have to pay it back, little by little. He tried to earn some extra money making food deliveries.In Gainesville, Fla., the Peaceful Paths Domestic Abuse Network struggled to provide its usual services, particularly essential in a place where domestic violence is a dominant problem; in the region, there are about 1,700 arrests annually on charges for such crimes. About 35 percent of the organizations yearly budget comes from federal dollars.For some government workers, the shutdown did not leave them struggling to make ends meet. But it caused other frustrations.Amy Butler, a contractor, is one of the federal governments experts on the polar vortex, the giant mass of cold air that normally is contained above the North Pole by strong bands of circulating winds, but which can wreak havoc on North American weather when those winds weaken.This year, the polar vortex broke apart days after the shutdown began. Ms. Butler, like other researchers, could not access government databases, so she was effectively blocked from weighing in on internal government debates and putting out analysis during a weather event of huge significance to their jobs and research.Its disappointing when there is an event which I feel Im an expert in, but I cant share my own work during it because Im not able to access those resources, she said.Some families in which both spouses work for the government had to give up two salaries. In Anniston, Ala., Marlin Kimbrough and Kimberly Askew-Kimbrough had a somber conversation with their teenage son about the hardship caused by the shutdown.Tuesday was his birthday. This year, he had to skip gifts and a party.It hurts the heart, it hurts your feelings, said Ms. Askew-Kimbrough, who like her husband works at the federal prison in Talladega, Ala. Thank God that our son is the type of person that understands. Im quite sure he still feels hurt by it. But he doesnt wear it on his shoulder.The White House had asked agency leaders to deliver a list of programs that would suffer if the shutdown continued until March and April, The Washington Post reported this past week. To federal employees on the cusp of losing a second paycheck, the idea that the shutdown could go on that long was unbearable.And in recent days, some furloughed federal workers decided they had had enough. Unions representing air traffic controllers, pilots and flight attendants warned that the shutdown was making air travel less safe. A group of federal employees gathered in the Hart Senate Office Building in Washington on Wednesday, standing in silent protest for 33 minutes  one minute for each day they had been out of work.On Friday, as Mr. Trump spoke from the Rose Garden to announce he had agreed to reopen the government, Americans watched, relieved and elated.It was finally over, at least for a few weeks.In western Wisconsin, Kelly Harris had spent two years in financial purgatory  paying off debts and fixing her credit  to qualify for a federal loan program that helps low-income residents of rural areas become homeowners. The money came through. She moved in with her 15-year-old grandson. It was a dream.But because of the shutdown, she missed her first mortgage payment, due on Jan. 21.Ms. Harris, 55, said the Department of Agriculture offices that handle her mortgage closed before she could get her account number and other basic information about how to pay. She tried calling federal offices, her bank, her senators. Nobody could tell her where to send the check.I worked so hard to get into this house, she said. For me to miss a payment is heart-wrenching.The thought of defaulting on the home made her sick with worry. She had a 10-day grace period, which was quickly ticking by. She said she had no idea what to do.On Friday, she broke down crying when she heard the news that the White House and congressional leaders had reached a deal.I am just sitting here bawling, she said. She said she planned to call her loan officer as soon as she could on Monday, just in the nick of time. Relief, she said. Absolute relief.Reporting was contributed by John Eligon from Kansas City, Mo.; Richard Fausset from Atlanta; Sheri Fink from Falfurrias, Tex.; Thomas Fuller from San Francisco; Jack Healy from Denver; Campbell Robertson from Pittsburgh; Frances Robles from Key West, Fla.; Mitch Smith from Chicago; Farah Stockman from Boston; Kate Taylor from Cambridge, Mass.; Donna De La Cruz from Washington; and Amy Harmon, Serge F. Kovaleski, Dan Levin, Richard A. Oppel Jr. and Julie Turkewitz from New York.videoAdvertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byWilliam P. Barr has long espoused an unfettered vision of executive power. He may soon serve a president not known for self-restraint.By Charlie SavageWASHINGTON  The meeting of President George Bushs cabinet on Jan. 8, 1991, was even more high-stakes than usual. Iraq had invaded Kuwait. Half a million American troops were deployed and ready to attack. But many lawmakers were demanding a vote before any war.Rejecting mainstream constitutional views, William P. Barr, the deputy attorney general, told Mr. Bush that he wielded unfettered power to start a major land war on his own  not only without congressional permission, but even if Congress voted against it.Mr. President, theres no doubt that you have the authority to launch an attack, Mr. Barr said, as he later recalled.Ultimately, Mr. Bush was cautious about invoking that maximalist theory of executive power and asked lawmakers for support anyway  a prudent step that Mr. Barr, whom Mr. Bush soon elevated to attorney general, also recommended. Congresss vote ensured the Persian Gulf war was lawful.Nearly three decades later, President Trump has nominated Mr. Barr to return as attorney general. But unlike the self-restrained Mr. Bush, Mr. Trump revels in pushing limits  a temperament that, when combined with Mr. Barrs unusually permissive understanding of presidential power, could play out very differently for the rule of law than it did last time.There are concerns about his independence, given his longstanding and expansive views of executive power, said Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the ranking Democrat on the Judiciary Committee, which will hold Mr. Barrs confirmation hearing starting Tuesday. So the question is, Is he right for this time, and can he really be independent of this president and the White House?Mr. Trump ousted his administrations first attorney general, Jeff Sessions, in November, after long excoriating him for having followed ethics officials advice that he recuse himself from overseeing what became the investigation led by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III. Mr. Trump said that he needed an attorney general who would protect him and that he would not have appointed Mr. Sessions if he had known he would recuse himself. The two-day hearing for Mr. Barr, 68, will play out against the backdrop of swelling rule-of-law turmoil, from Mr. Trumps pressuring the Justice Department to curtail investigations into his associates and to open them into his opponents to his threat to invoke emergency powers to circumvent Congress on border-wall funds, to coming oversight fights with House Democrats.Democrats have demanded that Mr. Barr protect Mr. Mueller as he completes the investigation into Russias interference in the 2016 election, including whether Mr. Trump sought to obstruct the inquiry on behalf of Moscow. Democrats have also focused on whether Mr. Barr would turn over to Congress any report Mr. Mueller compiles.Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and the new Judiciary Committee chairman, told reporters after meeting with Mr. Barr last week that the nominee had said he saw no reason to fire Mr. Mueller and had pledged to err on the side of transparency about any report. But neither statement addressed what he would do if Mr. Trump ordered him to act otherwise.Mr. Barr is likely to be confirmed because Republicans control the Senate and because defeating him would leave in place the acting attorney general, Matthew G. Whitaker, a Trump loyalist whose installation in that role Democrats see as illegitimate and a threat to Mr. Mueller. Ethics officials advised Mr. Whitaker to recuse himself from the Russia case, but he refused.But Mr. Barr has already drawn scrutiny over the revelation last month that he sent an apparently unsolicited 19-page memo to the Trump legal team in June arguing that Mr. Mueller should not be permitted to investigate Mr. Trump for criminal obstruction of justice.Mr. Barrs argument derived from his broad view of executive power: The Constitution, he claimed, does not permit Congress to make it a crime for the president to exercise his executive powers corruptly  even if he were to fire a subordinate, pardon someone or use what Mr. Barr termed his complete authority to start or stop a law enforcement proceeding to cover up crimes by himself or his associates.The claim that the framers of the Constitution empowered presidents to impede investigations for corrupt ends goes too far, many legal scholars say. But Supreme Court precedents offer few definitive guideposts, giving the attorney general broad latitude.The interpretive approach of Justice Department lawyers to the Constitution is very important because many separation-of-powers issues never wind up in court, said Peter Shane, an Ohio State University law professor. Barrs method is not uniquely his, but it does represent a particularly aggressive school of executive power thought.Mr. Barr started his career as a C.I.A. analyst before becoming an agency legislative affairs official in the mid-1970s, during the post-Watergate and post-Vietnam War era when a congressional investigation dragged decades of intelligence abuses into the light over the executive branchs objections.After going to law school, he joined the Reagan White House and worked on domestic policy with C. Boyden Gray, the counsel to then-Vice President George Bush. At the time, the administration was battling Democrats in Congress over its push for deregulation. The conflicts helped spur the Reagan legal team to develop new executive power theories that would diminish the influence of Congress.Their legal policy innovations intensified in Mr. Reagans second term, after Mr. Barr had returned to private practice and senior administration officials were caught steering aid to anti-Marxist militants in Nicaragua despite a law forbidding such assistance. The scandal, known as Iran-contra, set off investigations by Congress and an independent counsel.Amid the fallout, the Reagan legal team called into question the legitimacy of both the law barring aid and one allowing for prosecutors the president could not fire. The presidents lawyers saw them as congressional encroachments on the presidents rightful powers, though the Supreme Court upheld the independent counsel law in 1988.The next year, when Mr. Barr returned to public service in the new Bush administration, he took up the executive power mission as the head of the Office of Legal Counsel, the powerful agency within the Justice Department that evaluates the legality of proposed executive branch actions. Mr. Gray, who had become White House counsel under Mr. Bush, was intent on getting someone in that position who believed in executive authority, Mr. Barr later recalled.Normally, the Office of Legal Counsel waits to be asked a specific legal question about a particular dispute before weighing in. But among his first major acts was to write an apparently unsolicited 10-page memo to top lawyers across the executive branch, urging vigilance against any attempts by Congress to limit presidential power.Only by consistently and forcefully resisting such congressional incursions can executive branch prerogatives be preserved, he wrote.Mr. Barr denounced lawmakers pursuit of sensitive administration information for oversight investigations and the creation of legal limits on the presidents power to fire certain officials in order to give them a degree of independence. The power to remove is the power to control, he wrote.As Mr. Bushs term progressed, Mr. Barr not only argued that the president could unilaterally launch the gulf war without Congress  echoing a move by President Harry S. Truman, to enduring legal controversy, in the Korean War four decades earlier  but also sought to push the boundaries of presidential flexibility in many other ways, large and small.In 1990, for example, Mr. Barr asserted that the Bush administration could lawfully choose to disregard a law in which Congress, as a condition of funding a diplomatic delegation, required that a representative from a congressional panel be included. Arguing that Congress had no authority in the area of foreign affairs, he asserted that it was therefore self-evidently true that lawmakers could not enact a law influencing the presidents choices of diplomatic agents.That same year, he argued more broadly in a panel discussion that even with the power of the purse, lawmakers lack the authority to influence policy by placing conditions on appropriations for government activities that fall under the presidents executive powers. Ultimately, Congress only has the power to provide a lump sum to the president in those cases, he said.After Mr. Bush lost the 1992 election and before he left office, he pardoned half a dozen officials caught up in the Iran-contra affair just before one, Caspar Weinberger, was about to go to trial. Foreshadowing the controversy over Mr. Trumps dangling of potential pardons in the Russia investigation, the prosecutor accused Mr. Bush of a cover-up that could have implicated his own conduct. Mr. Barr later said that he had personally urged Mr. Bush to pardon the officials because he thought they had been unjustly treated.In the years after the Bush administration ended, Mr. Barr became a top lawyer for the telecommunications company that evolved into Verizon, working mainly on business and regulatory issues. But he also continued to play a role in legal policy debates over executive power and national security, especially after the Sept. 11 attacks.After Congress enacted the USA Patriot Act to loosen restrictions on government surveillance that grew out of the 1970s oversight investigations, he testified that the new statute had been a good first step but did not go far enough.In 2005, after the George W. Bush administrations detainee abuses started coming to light, he defended Mr. Bushs power to declare that prisoners in the war on terror were not protected by the Geneva Conventions and so could be lawfully subjected to coercive questioning.Generally, under the laws of war, absent treaty, there is nothing wrong with coercive interrogation, applying pain, discomfort and other things to make people talk, he said, pausing, then adding, as long as it doesnt cross the line and involve the gratuitous barbarity thats involved in torture.Later that year, Congress tightened laws against treating detainees in cruel or degrading ways, but Mr. Bush claimed he had constitutional power to do so anyway. In 2006, the Supreme Court ruled that the Geneva Conventions did require humane treatment of terrorism detainees, contrary to the Bush legal team theories that Mr. Barr had echoed.Mr. Barr also repeatedly defended Mr. Bushs decision to create the ill-fated system of military commissions instead of civilian courts to prosecute terrorism suspects. In fact, it was Mr. Barr who privately suggested to the Bush White House that it create a tribunals system, an idea he had considered as attorney general during the investigation of the 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103. Two Libyan suspects were indicted in civilian court in 1991.Mr. Barr has recounted a story about that case that may resonate with Democrats expressed concerns about whether he will maintain Justice Department independence against political interference by Mr. Trump. When prosecutors were preparing to indict the Pan Am 103 suspects, Mr. Bush cautiously asked his attorney general would it be O.K. to brief the National Security Council on the situation. Taken aback at Mr. Bushs hands-off attitude, Mr. Barr made clear that he saw the president as excessively deferential  and invoked the notion, popular among executive power maximalists, that the president, not the attorney general, is the prosecutor in chief.Would it be O.K.? Well, I work for you; youre the top law enforcement officer. Of course its O.K., Mr. Barr recalled marveling. The attitude was, You have to be very careful with pending matters of justice.Charlie Savage is a Washington-based national security and legal policy correspondent. A recipient of the Pulitzer Prize, he previously worked at The Boston Globe and The Miami Herald. His most recent book is Power Wars: The Relentless Rise of Presidential Authority and Secrecy.  @charlie_savage  Facebook Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie HabermanPresident Trump and his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, believed that the Russia thing would end as a side effect from the firing of the national security adviser, retired Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn, in the early days of the administration, according to an account in a new memoir by Chris Christie.The incident recounted in Mr. Christies book, Let Me Finish, is among the anecdotes describing how the president and Mr. Kushner grappled with a campaign and a presidency that Mr. Christie says neither was prepared for.Part autobiography and part firsthand accounting of a presidency, the book, which will be released on Tuesday, paints Mr. Trump as a phenom who was obviously effective as a candidate  but who has relied on the wrong people and has been ill-served by many advisers, including some members of his family.Mr. Christie, the former two-term governor of New Jersey and a longtime friend of the president, was among Mr. Trumps challengers for the 2016 Republican presidential nomination. He became a key, early supporter of Mr. Trump after withdrawing from the race, and then ran Mr. Trumps transition  until he was fired shortly after the election, reportedly at the direction of Mr. Kushner. He recently withdrew from consideration as White House chief of staff.Three main themes emerge in the book in relation to Mr. Trump.Mr. Trump is less of a cartoon figure than he is in most accounts contained in new books about the White House. But Mr. Christie describes him as averse to interpersonal conflict with people he likes, needlessly nasty to some subordinates and prone to trusting people he should not.Mr. Kushner, whose power has grown recently, appears as a shadow campaign manager and chief of staff in the White House, often giving his father-in-law questionable and problematic advice, according to the book, on topics including Mr. Flynn; how Democrats would perceive the firing of James B. Comey as F.B.I. director; his initial support for the campaign chairman, Paul Manafort; and how West Wing and key cabinet jobs were filled.And a number of unqualified figures attached themselves to Mr. Trump and pandered to Mr. Kushner, Mr. Christie said, particularly after he was dismissed from the transition team. One was Mr. Manafort, who bluntly told Mr. Christie in the spring of 2016 that he was succeeding over a rival campaign aide because Im smart enough to agree with Jared, and he is not.On Feb. 14, 2017, Mr. Christie and his wife, Mary Pat, had lunch scheduled with the president. It happened to be the day after Mr. Flynn  whom Mr. Christie did not back for the national security adviser role  was dismissed for lying to the vice president about his contacts with the Russian ambassador during the transition. Mr. Kushner decided to attend.As Mr. Kushner tucked into his typical salad, Mr. Christie wrote, the president said to him, This Russia thing is all over now, because I fired Flynn. Mr. Christie said that he started laughing, and the president asked why.Sir, I said, this Russia thing is far from over, Mr. Christie wrote. Mr. Trump responded: What do you mean? Flynn met with the Russians. That was the problem. I fired Flynn. Its over. Mr. Kushner added, Thats right, firing Flynn ends the whole Russia thing.Mr. Christie, who wrote that it all sounded nave, recalled Mr. Kushner telling him that he was crazy when he said they would most likely still be discussing the Russia issue in February 2018.The investigation into Russian meddling in the election and whether the Trump campaign was involved has been going on for more than two years, and has resulted in the indictments or guilty pleas of several former campaign officials, including Mr. Flynn and Mr. Manafort.In an interview on Sunday, Mr. Christie said that he did not believe Mr. Flynn was let go because of the Russia inquiry, but because keeping him on was untenable after officials said he had lied to the vice president.I think they thought that a result of that would be that this Russia stuff was over with, but I did not ever hear anybody say that that was the motivation, he said.Mr. Christie said the campaign was too disorganized and threadbare to run a Tom Clancy operation, and said he never saw evidence of collusion with Russian officials. But he argued that people like Mr. Flynn never should have been hired in the first place.Flynn was a train wreck from beginning to end, Mr. Christie said in the book, recounting that during the one early debate session that Mr. Flynn was invited to, he suggested that Mr. Trump reverse himself and support abortion rights, because it would take away an issue from Hillary Clinton.Mr. Christie was similarly wary about Jeff Sessions serving as attorney general, suggesting he mishandled his recusal from the Russia inquiry. He also took aim at Stephen K. Bannon, Mr. Trumps former chief strategist, saying he manufactured scenes about Mr. Christie in books and news media accounts. Repeatedly, Mr. Christie suggested that people around Mr. Trump, such as Mr. Bannon, promoted themselves at the presidents expense.Mr. Christie lifted the curtain on some of the most explosive moments of the campaign, including when Mr. Trump was presented with the audio of the infamous Access Hollywood tape for the first time. He had initially insisted the language used was not something he would say. When he heard the tape, he acknowledged, Its me. Mr. Christie said it was one of the only times he had seen Mr. Trump personally embarrassed.He described frantically writing a statement with Mr. Trumps eldest daughter, Ivanka, to give to the candidate to end days of controversy after Mr. Trump said a judge was biased against him because of his Mexican-American heritage.Mr. Christie detailed some of the bizarre back and forths he had with Mr. Trump or his aides about various jobs, including the candidate appearing to toy with both him and Mike Pence about who would be his running mate.He described Mr. Trump as clearly torn when his campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, was fired. They watched together as Mr. Lewandowski went on CNN to defend Mr. Trump after his dismissal, and Mr. Trump said they should call him together.To me, this all felt a little bizarre, Mr. Christie wrote. Didnt we just fire him? I asked. Yeah, yeah, yeah, Trump answered. But weve got to call and tell him he did a great job.Mr. Christie recounted introducing Mr. Trump to Mr. Pence, at a meeting where Mr. Pence said a short prayer. Does he do that all the time? Mr. Trump asked Mr. Christie later. When Mr. Christie replied yes, Mr. Trump responded, Interesting.He recalled the first time he met Mr. Trump, in May 2002, at a restaurant where Mr. Trump insisted on ordering for him. When dinner ended, a fan who had waited outside for an hour asked Mr. Trump to take a photograph with her. Her camera jammed repeatedly.Impatient, Mr. Trump looked at the woman and said, Sweetheart, lets do this the next time we get together. He disappeared into a black limousine.But Mr. Christie said there was another side to the president, describing conversations with Mr. Trump where he was concerned for his children. Whats going to happen to them if Im not there? Mr. Trump wondered about his adult children if he became president.I think people draw him in very, very stark colors, and I dont think that thats who he is, Mr. Christie said in the interview. I think theres a lot more nuance to it.Repeatedly, however, the story returns to Mr. Kushner, whom Mr. Christie recalled watching, silently, as Mr. Kushner denounced Mr. Christie to Mr. Trump in a meeting and urged him to exclude Mr. Christie from the transition effort.He tried to destroy my father, Mr. Kushner said, according to Mr. Christie, a former United States attorney who prosecuted Mr. Kushners father, Charles, on tax evasion and other charges. Mr. Trump did not side with his son-in-law.When Mr. Kushner lost the battle, he told Mr. Christie that they should let bygones be bygones and work together, Mr. Christie wrote. But time and again, he said, he heard from other officials that Mr. Kushner was working against him.On election night, Mr. Kushner asked Mr. Christies son to take a picture of him and the governor, a moment he said he could never have imagined years earlier, according to the book. Mr. Christie was dismissed from the transition three days later.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Isabella Grulln PazFrom the presidents checks to a resolution against hate, its been a busy week in American politics. Here are some of the biggest stories you might have missed (and some links if youd like to read further).___________________On a busy day at the White House in October of 2017, President Trump took the time to sign a $35,000 check to Michael D. Cohen, his fixer, who had made hush payments to keep sexual misconduct allegations against Mr. Trump from being exposed. Six such checks were provided to The Times, showing that the president was managing affairs of state while, allegedly, paying to keep his personal secrets out of the public eye.Mr. Cohen gave documents to the House Intelligence Committee on Wednesday that he said backed up his claim that Mr. Trumps lawyers helped to shape false testimony he delivered to Congress in 2017.The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee sent requests for information to 81 agencies, individuals and entities tied to Mr. Trump on Monday, opening a broad inquiry into possible obstruction, corruption and abuse of power. Mr. Trump signaled that he did not intend to cooperate with the requests, calling the investigation a disgrace to our country.Additional Reading House Democrats Are Flooding Trump World With Demands. Heres a Guide to the Investigations. Giuliani Says Lawyers Have Sought Trump Pardons for Their ClientsRepresentative Ilhan Omar again came under scrutiny for comments about Israel, after asking why it was O.K. for people to push for allegiance to a foreign country. Critics said she was invoking the anti-Semitic trope that American Jews have dual loyalties.The furor over Ms. Omars remarks led to a proposed resolution in the House of Representatives condemning anti-Semitism. But a generational debate ensued between older Democrats in the House leadership and their young, more liberal counterparts, many of whom said Ms. Omar was being unfairly singled out.After much back and forth, the resolution became one condemning hateful expressions of intolerance against African-Americans, Native Americans, and other people of color, Jews, Muslims, Hindus, Sikhs, immigrants and others. It passed by a 407-to-23 vote on Thursday.Additional Reading Ilhan Omar Controversy Caps a Month of Stumbles for Democratic Leaders Ilhan Omars Criticism Raises the Question: Is Aipac Too Powerful? Another Democrat joined the 2020 race for the presidency: John Hickenlooper declared his candidacy on Monday. The two-time Colorado governor, socially progressive and pro-business, has called himself an extreme moderate.Others decided not to join the field. Michael R. Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York, said he would not run; instead, he plans to use his wealth to finance the opposition to Mr. Trump and support causes like gun control and fighting climate change.Jeff Merkley, a two-term senator from Oregon, and Sherrod Brown, a populist senator from Ohio, also declared they would not run.Aides to Joe Biden have laid the groundwork for a campaign, and his strategist has been saying the former vice president is all but certain to run. But Mr. Biden, who would give the Democratic field a clear front-runner, has yet to make a final decision.Additional Reading Pennsylvania Democrats Wonder How Far Is Too Far Left in 2020 White House Ambitions Cloud Democratic Hopes to Win the Senate A Beat Trump Fervor Is Producing Big Turnouts for 2020 Democrats Paul Manafort, the onetime Trump campaign chairman whose work in Ukraine and ties to well-connected Russians made him a target of the special counsel, was sentenced on Thursday to less than four years in prison. Prosecutors had sought a 19- to 24-year term. One of President Trumps goals was to narrow the countrys trade deficit. Instead, it has hit a record $891 billion, amid a global economic slowdown, weaker demand for American goods, the trade war with Beijing and Mr. Trumps $1.5 trillion tax cut. The National Security Agency has quietly shut down a system used to analyze the logs of Americans phone records and text messages to search for terrorists. The programs disclosure by Edward J. Snowden in 2013 set off intense discussions about privacy and the rule of law. Senator Martha McSally, Republican of Arizona and the first woman in the Air Force to fly in combat, said she was raped by a superior officer, one of multiple times she was sexually assaulted while in the military. North Carolinas Ninth Congressional District, where fraud tainted the November election, will be without representation in the House until at least September. A new open primary will be held on May 14 and a new general election on Sept. 10. Bill Shine, the former Fox News executive who joined the White House staff last summer to manage Mr. Trumps communications operation, has resigned and will move to the presidents re-election campaign. More than 76,000 migrants crossed the border without authorization in February, an 11-year high and a sign that the Trump administrations aggressive policies have not discouraged new migration. The Trump administration formally ended rules that required the government to annually make public its estimates of civilian bystanders killed in airstrikes outside conventional war zones. The Justice Department is forming a task force to root out violations of foreign lobbying restrictions, which prosecutors  notably the special counsel  have targeted vigorously in recent years. The House Oversight and Reform Committee is investigating allegations of voter suppression in Georgia under Secretary of State Brian Kemp, who has since become governor. The Supreme Court was offered a primer on rap by several well-known hip-hop artists, who filed a brief on Wednesday urging the court to hear the case of a Pittsburgh rapper sent to prison for lyrics about killing police officers._____________________Todays On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grulln Paz in New YorkIs there anything you think were missing? Anything you want to see more of? Wed love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byGood Tuesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Chinas premier said today that his government would respond to an economic slowdown by cutting taxes, easing burdens on the private sector and giving markets a bigger role, Keith Bradsher and Chris Buckley of the NYT write.2019 is a crucial year for Chinas economy, Premier Li Keqiang, the second-ranking official in the country after President Xi Jinping, said at the opening of the National Peoples Congress in Beijing this morning. He said the trade war with America had had an adverse effect, adding, We must be fully prepared for a tough struggle. China has lowered its growth target for this year. Mr. Li said that the nation was now aiming for gross domestic product growth of 6 to 6.5 percent, down from a target of 6.5 percent over the past two years.Other policy changes include a reduction in value added tax, which is expected to boost corporate earnings. And Mr. Li said the government would act with resolve to hand matters it shouldnt manage over to the market.But Mr. Lis speech did not go as far as domestic or foreign critics would have liked, Mr. Bradsher and Mr. Buckley write, adding that economic anxieties have come to dominate policy in China over the past year.And China may just need to accept the new normal. A gradual decline in an astonishing growth rate is what happens when you become a big, maturing economy, Daniel Moss of Bloomberg Opinion writes.More: China is getting ready to overhaul to its laws on foreign investment in order to ease its trade dispute with the U.S.A Tokyo court ruled today that the former auto industry leader Carlos Ghosn could post bail, months after he was charged with financial misconduct. The court set the bail at 1 billion yen, or about $9 million.It was Mr. Ghosns third bail request, but the first led by his new legal team, including the high-profile defense lawyer Junichiro Hironaka. Prosecutors previously argued that Mr. Ghosn was a flight risk and might tamper with evidence.The court imposed strict limits on Mr. Ghosn, including a ban on leaving Japan, surveillance outside his Tokyo residence and a pledge not to contact people beyond his legal team. The bail conditions are severe, but we will make sure to comply, Mr. Hironaka said.The battle for bail highlighted Japans use of what critics call hostage justice. The FT writes that it prolongs the detainment of defendants who, like Mr. Ghosn, assert their innocence and refuse to make a confession.Mr. Ghosn isnt free yet. Prosecutors have appealed, and his own legal team says hes unlikely to be released today.The chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Representative Jerry Nadler, issued a flurry of document requests yesterday to all corners of President Trumps world. Its the most sweeping effort yet by Democratic lawmakers to investigate the president for alleged misdeeds.Mr. Nadler requested information from 81 people and agencies, including the Trump Organization, the Trump campaign, the Trump Foundation, the inaugural committee, the White House, and family members and aides. Other House committee chairs have requested documents related to Mr. Trumps communications with President Vladimir Putin of Russia.Democrats are looking into possible violations of campaign finance law and use of office for personal gain, particularly where it might violate a constitutional ban on foreign emoluments. Theyre also investigating claims about hush money payments to the porn star Stormy Daniels and attacks against critics.They clearly wont wait for Robert Mueller. The NYT notes that the House has a different standard of evidence not wedded to a criminal indictment. Republicans accused their colleagues of laying the groundwork for impeachment proceedings.But hurdles remain. Unlike Mr. Mueller, House Democrats cant compel document production by convening a grand jury. And the White House could assert executive privilege to block some requests  though Trump administration officials said they would cooperate when possible.The telecom giant finally unveiled its new structure for what was once Time Warner yesterday, days after it beat the Justice Departments effort to block the acquisition. Warner Media, as it now is, has been reorganized to better fight old rivals (like Verizon) and new ones (like Netflix).Whos in? Bob Greenblatt, the former head of NBC and Showtime, will be chairman of Warner Media Entertainment. Jeff Zucker, the current CNN chief, will oversee news and sports. And Kevin Tsujihara will continue to lead the Warner Bros. movie studio, along with a new division for family and kids programming.The battle has two fronts. AT&T hopes 24-hour news and content like Game of Thrones will help it fend off telecom competitors. But it also wants to compete in streaming against giants like Netflix and Amazon. John Stankey, the head of Warner Media, told the NYT that the reorganization would speed the development of a new online video service.The man in the hot seat is Mr. Greenblatt, who as HBOs new boss replaces Richard Plepler, the much-admired former C.E.O. who resisted AT&Ts desire to make the network more like Netflix. Mr. Greenblatt defended AT&Ts approach, telling Vanity Fair that HBO would have to increase its output because now we live in a volume world, and theres no way to really avoid that.More: The New Yorker reported that in the summer of 2017, President Trump ordered Gary Cohn, then his economic adviser, to push the Justice Department into blocking AT&Ts acquisition of Time Warner.After the Great Depression, the Glass-Steagall Act forced lenders to separate their commercial and investment banking operations. Now, Representative David Cicilline, who leads the House antitrust subcommittee, wonders if something similar could apply to tech.Its an interesting idea whether there would be a way to think about separating what platforms do versus people who are selling products and information  a Glass-Steagall for the international tech companies, Mr. Cicilline told the FT.His views hold weight. Mr. Cicilline has been an outspoken voice in the Democratic Party about tech regulation  he previously said that Facebook cannot be trusted to regulate itself  and his committee position is a powerful one.Others in Washington are making similar noises. Last week, the F.T.C. announced a new Big Tech task force, and its director of competition, Bruce Hoffman, said that some companies could be forced to spin off previous acquisitions.Lawmakers on both sides of the aisle want to limit companies ability to buy back their shares. But Josh Bolten, the C.E.O. of the Business Roundtable, and Ken Bertsch, the executive director of the Council of Institutional Investors, write in an NYT Op-Ed that such efforts could hurt the economy. Restricting buybacks and dividends, the two write, could force companies to sit on cash or waste it on projects with a low potential for success. Some critics of buybacks miss this point: Money returned to shareholders through buybacks and dividends does not disappear from the economy, Mr. Bolten and Mr. Bertsch add, citing individuals making big purchases, angel investments in new businesses and loans as potential uses of such cash. While there was a substantial increase in buybacks and dividends last year, business investment also increased substantially and grew at the fastest rate since 2011. Not only do buybacks and dividends support a stronger and more dynamic economy, they also contribute to Americans retirement security, Mr. Bolten and Mr. Bertsch write, citing widespread stock ownership in American households. The two concede that buybacks could be abused and advocate companies having strong corporate governance. But they argue federal limitations would stifle innovation and opportunity in America.A recent Google study into pay equality at the company found  to the surprise of just about everyone  that men were paid less than women for doing similar work, Daisuke Wakabayashi of the NYT writes: The study, which disproportionately led to pay raises for thousands of men, is done every year. In response to the study, Google gave $9.7 million in additional compensation to 10,677 employees for this year. Men account for about 69 percent of the companys work force, but they received a higher percentage of the money. Critics said the results of the pay study could give a false impression. Company officials acknowledged that it did not address whether women were hired at a lower pay grade than men with similar qualifications. A more difficult issue to solve  one that critics say Google often mismanages for women  is a human resources concept called leveling. Are employees assigned to the appropriate pay grade for their qualifications?More: Some employees reportedly believe that the company continues to work on a censored search engine for China.PepsiCo promoted Laxman Narasimhan to chief commercial officer, a new position.Andreessen Horowitz hired David George from General Atlantic as a partner focused on later-stage venture capital investments.Deals Purdue Pharma, the maker of OxyContin, is reportedly exploring a bankruptcy filing to limit its legal liabilities. (Reuters) Newmont Mining rejected Barrick Golds $17.8 billion takeover offer and instead proposed a joint venture. (Bloomberg) Alibaba is working with Office Depot on a U.S. e-commerce venture. (Reuters) The reviews site Trustpilot raised $55 million in a funding round led by a subsidiary of the investment firm Advent International. (CNBC) Is it time to stop betting on Warren Buffett? (MarketWatch)Politics and policy A majority of senators have declared against President Trumps declaration of a national emergency over a border wall. (NYT) Big tech companies were out in force at last years Conservative Political Action Conference. Not this year. (NYT) Attorney General Bill Barr wont recuse himself from overseeing Robert Muellers investigation. (CNBC) Roger Stone may have violated his gag order with another Instagram post. (NY Post)Brexit British officials head back to Brussels today to seek concessions from the E.U. that might make Prime Minister Theresa Mays Brexit deal more acceptable to her party. (Bloomberg) British shoppers have begun holding off on spending. (FT) President Emmanuel Macron of France has called for a European renaissance to strengthen the E.U. after Britain leaves. (FT)Trade The U.S. plans to end preferential trade agreements with India and Turkey. (BBC) U.S. and E.U. trade negotiators cant agree on agriculture policies, which could reignite an economic fight. (WSJ)Tech The N.S.A. has shut down a program that analyzes logs of Americans domestic calls and texts. (NYT) Facebook has sued Chinese companies for creating and selling fake accounts. (WSJ) A guide to Huaweis big A.I. ambitions. (MIT Technology Review) Chinese hackers reportedly attacked more than two dozen universities around the world to steal research about military maritime technology. (WSJ) Vladimir Putin wants even more control of Russias internet. (Bloomberg) The British police have launched a fraud investigation into the payment start-up Revolut after a cash transfer went missing. (FT)Best of the rest China has accused two detained Canadians of espionage. (NYT) A federal judge took the rare step of dismissing a market manipulation case against a Barclays trader before a jury verdict, preventing an appeal by prosecutors. (NYT) Nordea Bank, the biggest Nordic bank, reportedly handled almost $800 million in suspicious funds between 2005 and 2017. (Bloomberg) For just the second time, a patient appears to have been cured of H.I.V. (NYT) The case against publishing tax returns. (Bloomberg Opinion)Thanks for reading! Well see you tomorrow.Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe conversationIts been a very long two weeks. By Gail Collins and Bret StephensMs. Collins and Mr. Stephens are opinion columnists. They converse every other week.Gail Collins: Well, gee, Bret, happy new year. How do you think 2019 has been going so far? I mean, except for the fact that the government is shut down. And Donald Trump is still president.What do you thinks going to happen next?Bret Stephens: And happy new year to you, Gail. My predictions, as our readers know, are unfailingly accurate. I predict that Democrats will fold over the shutdown, Mexico will agree to pay for the wall, House Republicans will vote for impeachment, the Rams will win the Super Bowl and Donald Trump will win the Nobel Prize. For Literature.Gail: Not economics? For his pathbreaking work in demonstrating that governments dont need to be funded?Bret: The Collected Tweets of Donald Trump is surely a worthy successor to the work of William Golding, the 1983 laureate and author of Lord of The Flies, in its depiction of adolescent cruelty. Sorry, go on.Gail: I want to know what you think should happen next. Presuming our president doesnt have a visit from an angel who tells him that instead of building a wall he should concentrate on building  oh, I dont know, a stairway to the stars? A re-creation of the hanging gardens of Babylon?It looks like the current options, short of actually being rational, are declaring a national emergency, stealing money from the Army Corps of Engineers or just going on like this forever. Whats your pick?Bret: My guess is that hell declare a national emergency and allocate Pentagon funds for the border wall. Thats bad news for the country, precisely because it sets a precedent future presidents will abuse for their own partisan purposes. And it will alienate a lot of traditional Republicans, like Senator Marco Rubio, precisely for that reason.But that wont stop Trump, who isnt exactly the sort of guy to worry about institutional precedents. He understands that if he folds on wall funding, his presidency is effectively over. It means he will have failed a test of strength against the despised Nancy Pelosi while betraying his core political promise. As when George H.W. Bush broke his campaign promise and raised taxes in 1990 as part of the budget agreement, it will be his Read My Lips moment.But could I be wrong? Of course. Predicting what Trump will do is like trying to guess which way the goldfish swims next.Gail: Since youre presuming the president behaves irrationally, hard to say youre wrong. My prediction would be that the whole thing winds up in court, creating endless litigation, screwing up the economy and making it impossible for Congress to do anything about anything else.One of the many, many problems here is that the Democrats are just at the beginning of their presidential selection process, so youve got around 20 people waving their hands, none of whom have the stature to speak as the opposition. Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer are both very good at their jobs, but the talents you need to get a bunch of legislators to work together on a party agenda are not the talents you need to rally the country.Itd be nice if we heard some Republicans speak out, but all were getting is Lindsey Graham scrambling to win the Best Boy award from the White House. Any signs of a more promising voice? Im getting kinda tired of patting Jeff Flake on the back. Really, hes gone.Bret: Our new junior senator from Utah, Mitt Romney, seemed like he might be volunteering for the post of semi-courageous Republican with that op-ed he wrote for The Washington Post. Im somewhat allergic to Romney because hes such a transparently calculating politician. But I think he deserves support. The healthiest thing that can happen in 2020  other than Donald Trump losing the presidency  is a Republican primary challenge to the president from someone like Romney or John Kasich, if only to serve as a reminder that not everyone on the political right has lost his mind. And, of course, we shouldnt discount the possibility that Trump wont be on the ballot next year.Gail: Deeply, deeply cynical as I am about Mitt Romney, I would never argue that he wouldnt be 10 times better a president. And while its true I once made fun of Romneys dog, we have to remember that we now have the first president ever who has never had a pet in his entire life. That says something.You know, were agreeing way too much. Let me ask you something that might spark a divide. We just had a story about the veterans hospitals and the conservative desire to move all the veterans out of the old system and into private hospitals. What do you think?Bret: For it. The V.A. system has been a scandal-ridden mess for years, with endless stories about substandard medical and nursing care and scandals over hidden waiting lists. Its one of the reasons Americans should be wary of ever embracing government-run health care as the norm. According to The Timess own story, private care could mean shorter waits, more choices and fewer requirements for co-pays. The whole purpose of a V.A. system is to assure our vets the best possible care, not the worst.I know there are arguments against it, including that it will threaten existing V.A. hospitals and strain the private system. Those arguments remind me a bit of the case against school choice. But the point is that we have these systems to help veterans (or students), and not to maintain the systems for their own sake. What do you think?Gail: In a way it really is like school choice. Its great when you have a lot of good oversight and citizens are getting more quality options. But weve seen examples  Betsy DeVoss Michigan school privatization efforts come to mind  where all you do is replace deeply imperfect public schools with really terrible privately operated ones. Which cost more and protect the public less.When it comes to things like health and education, privatization only works when you have excellent government monitors. And I am absolutely certain this administration will never find them.Bret: Im not against regulation, so long as its intended to prevent abuses rather than simply impose costs and restrict innovation. But I cant think of many areas where the private sector doesnt do a better job than government of providing a service, from delivering mail to running an airline to providing a better quality of education. This is a point I sometimes find myself making to Park Slope progressives who, for ideologically mysterious reasons, somehow wound up sending their kids to private schools like Poly Prep or St. Anns instead of their local public schools.Gail: Im generally fine with, say, giving parents the option of sending their kids to charter schools that have been carefully monitored for quality. But you need very serious oversight. There are too many examples of privatization leading to either lower quality or higher prices for me to be comfortable with just presuming that profit-making services are better than the ones the government offers.And, of course, Im totally uncomfortable if the folks doing the privatization are reporting to Donald Trump. Hey, I tried to find a non-Trumpian issue for us to discuss and he sneaked back in. Is there any place we can go where he wont poke his orangy head?Bret: Hmm. The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia just voted to rename itself Republic of North Macedonia. Maybe that? Or, wait, the Osiris-Rex space probe is now orbiting the asteroid Bennu. Surely Trump doesnt have strong views about our space probes.Gail: Bet he thinks the Space Force could have done it better.Bret: Ha! It really is astonishing how completely Trump infects everything. Hes like that guy with a bad flu, coughing and sneezing on a packed subway car. I consider it a point of pride that my first four columns of 2019 mention him only glancingly. I think wed be serving our readers, and our profession, better if we resolved to try to write about him a lot less this year. Otherwise, as Frank Bruni pointed out in his latest column, we run the risk of becoming his accomplices in amplifying his voice when we should be trying to diminish it.Gail: Frank was so right. But boy this guy is hard to ignore.Bret: By the way, speaking of people who are sucking up a lot of media oxygen, can we discuss the freshman representative known to all by her initials, A.O.C.? Her habits of bending the truth to suit her ideological preconceptions and delight her base have an echo in you-know-who.Gail: Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez is somebody I was prepared to leave alone for a while. I mean really, shes 29, a neighborhood organizer who suddenly vaulted into Congress by defeating a very senior and stale member of the Democratic leadership. She deserves a little media vacuum while shes adjusting. But shes not going to get it and pretty clearly doesnt want it anyway.Still, I think youre underestimating her. She did make some factual errors about military spending and she did bristle when the fact checkers came after her. But then she figured the whole thing out pretty quickly, and thanked the fact-checking community for their good work. Thats the furthest thing from Trumpian.Bret: Fair point. And Im mindful that shes a rookie politician whos bound to make rookie mistakes. Though what mainly bothers me arent her misstatements of fact but rather the unworkability of her proposals. The last person to try a 70 percent-plus tax on the rich was Franois Hollande, the one-term former president of France, and it quickly proved an economic and political fiasco. Is it too much to ask even a young politician to be aware of recent history?This is a country that desperately needs to rediscover its center. Republicans abandoned it when they went with Trump, and I fear Democrats might be tempted to do the same by embracing the proposals of people like Ocasio-Cortez.Gail: Well, it isnt as if shes proposing a coup. I say let all the Democrats run their ideas up the flagpole and see what happens. No fair muttering anything about ideas that flap in the breeze.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Gail Collins is an Op-Ed columnist, a former member of the editorial board and was the first woman to serve as Times editorial page editor, from 2001 to 2007.  @GailCollins  Facebook Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.  @BretStephensNYT  Facebook Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Niraj ChokshiUpdated Jan. 10.The partial shutdown of the federal government is nearing the end of its third full week. If it continues through Saturday, it will become the longest such shutdown on record.While some essential work, such as mail delivery and law enforcement, is still being performed, the shutdown has affected operations at nine departments, including Homeland Security, Justice, State and Treasury, and several agencies, including the Environmental Protection Agency and NASA.Much work has ground to a halt. About 800,000 government workers are living without pay, with more than half working and most likely being repaid once the government reopens and the rest sent home with no such expectation. And, if history is any guide, it may ultimately cost more to have shut down the government than to have left it open.[Analysis: President Trumps insistence on a border wall is boxing him in.]Heres a brief look at some of the government functions that have and have not been affected by the shutdown.Since the shutdown began, Transportation Security Administration workers, many of them responsible for screening passengers and baggage, have been calling out sick in increased numbers at airports across the country.Last week, a federal official who spoke to The Times on the condition of anonymity said that the call-outs seemed to be a coordinated protest, but union officials said that many workers were most likely just looking for work elsewhere to cover for missed wages. A T.S.A. spokesman played down the disruption.This week, a union that represents tens of thousands of T.S.A. officers said that some officers had quit and many were considering quitting because of financial hardship.[Government workers feel like pawns in a political chess game.]____Many national parks are closed to visitors. And while some remain open with limited staffing or thanks to help from states, the National Park Service has warned that access may change without notice.Joshua Tree National Park, for example, remained open after the shutdown, but then suffered temporary or partial closings as officials struggled to keep up with the toll visitors had taken. At some parks, volunteers have stepped in to help with cleanup.[Read more on how parks and museums are affected by the shutdown.]Limited staffing has also raised questions about visitor safety. At least three people have died on National Park Service land since the shutdown began, and while it is unclear if the shutdown had any effect on the authorities immediate responses to the accidents, the announcement of at least one of the deaths was reportedly delayed because of the lack of resources.Museums have been affected, too. The National Gallery of Art, all 19 Smithsonian museums, and the National Zoo were closed last week because of the shutdown. (Essential personnel remain on hand at the zoo to care for the animals.)[Though the museum is closed, you may still be able to see the art within. Some paintings have a double life online.]____The scientific community has been affected, too. Some government labs are empty, with scientists having been sent home. Research, some of it time sensitive, has been disrupted. And the flow of grant money may be interrupted, too.Some agencies, including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the National Institutes of Health, are largely or entirely unaffected. But others, such as the Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, which includes the National Weather Service, have sent many workers home.[Read more about the shutdowns toll on science and research.]Inspections of chemical factories, power plants, oil refineries, water treatment plants, and thousands of other industrial sites have also ground to a halt because the Environmental Protection Agency had to furlough most of its employees in charge of inspecting pollution and monitoring compliance.____The shutdown has also affected food safety oversight.While the Agriculture Department is still inspecting meat, poultry, eggs, grain and other commodities, the Food and Drug Administration has stopped its routine inspections of seafood, fruits, vegetables and other foods at high risk of contamination.The 40 million or so people who receive food stamps will still receive the benefit for January, according to the Agriculture Department, which administers the program. And other programs focused on child nutrition, including school lunch and breakfast programs, will continue operating into February, the department said.Food assistance programs for women, children and infants and for people on Native American reservations can continue to operate at the state and local level, depending on what funding remains, but federal funding for those programs is suspended until the shutdown ends, the department said.[Heres how the shutdown leaves food, medicine and pay in doubt for Native Americans.]____Fear not, older Americans: The Social Security checks are still coming. (And the Postal Service will still deliver them.)Thats because the Social Security Administration received funding for the 2019 fiscal year back in September, according to Mark Hinkle, an agency spokesman.Social Security services and offices will remain fully operational, and Social Security benefits will be paid on time, he said in an emailed statement.Medicare, Medicaid and veterans benefits are similarly unaffected.[Fact Check: President Trump has told a number of falsehoods about the shutdown.]____Tens of thousands of law enforcement personnel are among those working without pay.That includes workers at the F.B.I., the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Bureau of Prisons, Customs and Border Protection, the Coast Guard, the Secret Service, and more.But the shutdown has nonetheless affected the criminal justice system. Federal court proceedings have slowed as government lawyers ask for delays and federal district courts remain open though their funding remains in doubt.Already backlogged, most immigration courts are closed because of the shutdown, leading to long delays in deportations.That is the irony of this shutdown, Judge Amiena Khan, the executive vice president of the National Association of Immigration Judges, the judges union, told The Times. The impact is most acutely felt in immigration courts and proceedings where cases will not be going forward.[How the shutdown could turn a day in court into a four-year wait.]____The shutdown has had mixed effects on government investigations.F.B.I. investigations will continue, according to the Justice Departments shutdown plan, because all operations of the F.B.I. are directed toward national security and investigations of violations of law involving protection of life and property.The office of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III,  will also continue its investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election because it does not rely on congressional action for funding.At the Securities and Exchange Commission, though, all but 6 percent of the agencys approximately 4,400 employees have been sent home, according to a contingency plan. That limited staff will handle emergency enforcement, but much investigative work is not being done.____When the shutdown began, most I.R.S. operations  stopped, with just about 12 percent of the agencys nearly 80,000 employees still working, according to a contingency plan.That plan, which covered the end of last year, did not make clear what the I.R.S. would do in 2019. The White House has said it will call back I.R.S. employees in order to make sure tax refunds are issued, though it remains unclear whether it has the authority to do so.[What the shutdown would look like if it happened in other industries.]With tax filing season about to begin, the agency will no doubt face plenty of questions from taxpayers over the recent changes to tax law.____The Violence Against Women Act, which funds programs for survivors of domestic violence, stalking and sexual assault, expired last month when the government shut down.The Justice Department already awarded grants to those programs for the 2019 fiscal year, but its payment system was affected by the shutdown. As a result, requests for grant payments filed after Dec. 26 are on hold during the shutdown.Local programs have other sources of funds, said Monica McLaughlin, the director of public policy at the National Network to End Domestic Violence. But when they are in a situation where theyve done the work that is federally funded and they arent able to reimburse for it, it certainly puts them in a financial bind.Christina Caron, Liam Stack and Glenn Thrush contributed reporting.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie Haberman and Annie KarniCliff Sims, the former White House communications aide who wrote an insider account of life working for President Trump, is suing the president in his official capacity, alleging that he used his campaign organization as a cutout to improperly seek retribution against former employees and keep them from invoking their First Amendment rights.Mr. Sims was a White House aide from the beginning of the administration. But it was the campaign organization that filed an arbitration claim against him last week, accusing him of violating the nondisclosure agreement he signed with it during the 2016 presidential race with the publication of his book, Team of Vipers, last month.The White House had dozens of people sign such agreements at the beginning of the presidents term. But those agreements are widely seen as likely unenforceable. In the suit, Mr. Sims says he does not recall whether he signed one when he came to the White House.Mr. Simss lawsuit alleges that Mr. Trump is seeking to impose civil liability against Mr. Sims through application of NDAs that apply to information Mr. Sims learned solely during his federal service.Mr. Trump was slow to react to Team of Vipers. But the president became increasingly angry about the book, which confirmed much of the real-time reporting about chaos at the White House and which included some less-than-flattering anecdotes about the president.A low level staffer that I hardly knew named Cliff Sims wrote yet another boring book based on made up stories and fiction, Mr. Trump tweeted at one point. He pretended to be an insider when in fact he was nothing more than a gofer.The suit notes that Mr. Trump appears to be selective in enforcing the nondisclosure agreements. For instance, it says, he attempted to enforce it against Omarosa Manigault Newman, whose book also infuriated him, but he did not do so against Sean Spicer, or Corey Lewandowski and David Bossie, three former aides who wrote books that the president found flattering and therefore not objectionable.The suit says Mr. Trump has made clear in his public comments that he has a disdain of so-called tell-all books written by former federal officials and his desire to apply NDAs to those who serve in the White House.The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Mr. Trump has repeatedly used the threat of arbitration over the nondisclosure agreements to silence former aides. It has not always been successful: One former aide, Sam Nunberg, succeeded in a counterclaim when Mr. Trump tried to enforce the agreement during the 2016 campaign, and the dispute was settled.The suit, filed in Federal District Court in Washington on Monday by Mark Zaid, a lawyer experienced in legal fights with the federal government, is the first from a former employee to allege that Mr. Trump is trying to circumvent standard practices about former employees who use unclassified information in their books, and to seek retribution that would not otherwise be available to him through the federal government.The Trump campaigns demand for arbitration is nothing but a subterfuge for the actions of the federal government, the suit alleges, and was undertaken under express authorization and instruction, and certainly with the blessing of, President Trump.It continues, These actions sufficiently and constructively qualify as state action for purposes of First Amendment jurisdictional authority. It adds that the federal government has infringed upon Mr. Simss First Amendment rights as a former federal employee and acted contrary to the interests of public policy.In a statement, Mr. Simss publishing house, St. Martins Press, said it supported the lawsuit.When presidents or their political campaigns seek to silence a voice, it is especially important that we maintain our steadfast commitment to free speech, the statement said. Recent attempts to selectively prevent former government employees from speaking and writing about their experience as public servants call for our scrutiny, and illustrate how essential the First Amendment is to the preservation of democracy.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byGood Tuesday morning and Happy New Year. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today._____________________ Senator Elizabeth Warren, a sharp critic of big banks and unregulated capitalism, is running for president in 2020. Ms. Warren said she was forming a presidential exploratory committee, which allows her to raise money and hire staff before a formal kickoff. Ms. Warrens announcement marks the beginning of a new year and new campaign that will feature an unusually large number of Democrats seeking the presidency. The question is: Who, if anyone, matches the political moment? With the next presidential election almost two years away, Ms. Warren and other candidates may seem to be starting their campaigns early. But theyre actually right on schedule. House Democrats have agreed on a proposal to end the partial government shutdown that would extend current levels of funding for the Department of Homeland Security, but that doesnt include money for President Trumps border wall. John F. Kelly, the departing White House chief of staff, said the Trump administration had long since abandoned the idea of a concrete border wall. Mr. Trump has agreed to give the military about four months to withdraw the 2,000 United States troops in Syria, a backtrack from his abrupt order two weeks ago that the military pull out within 30 days. Letitia James, New Yorks new attorney general, has been forthright in her desire to use her office to pursue Mr. Trump. But her strident attacks on the president could threaten the legal standing of cases that her office brings against him and his business interests. A year after the retirement of a prominent appeals court judge accused of sexual harassment, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. wrote that the federal judicial system must do more to protect law clerks and other employees from abusive conduct. The Democratic sweep in Orange County is the latest sign of a huge political and cultural shift in a former Republican stronghold. Just a few weeks after a Russian operative was convicted of conspiracy in the United States, an American citizen has been detained in Moscow on espionage charges._____________________Todays On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grulln Paz in New York.Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Is there anything you think were missing? Anything you want to see more of? Wed love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Sharon LaFraniere and Alan BlinderWASHINGTON  Judge T.S. Ellis III offered some pointed advice for those who expected him to throw the book at President Trumps former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, for perpetrating a decade-long, multimillion-dollar fraud scheme.Go and spend a day in the jail or penitentiary of the federal government, Judge Ellis said on Thursday night from the bench in the United States District Court in Alexandria, Va. Spend a week there. He has to spend 47 months.Judge Ellis dismissed as vindictive and way out of whack sentencing guidelines that recommended a prison term of 19 to 24 years for Mr. Manafort, 69.But to more than a few legal experts, it was Judge Elliss sentence that was out of whack. They cited it as a glaring example of the leniency that wealthy white-collar criminals often receive because they have the money to defend themselves or because judges find it easier to empathize with them.There are a lot of defendants who are going to prison for a lot longer for offenses that are far less serious, said Duncan Levin, a former federal prosecutor who specialized in financial crimes. This sentence is leaving me and a lot of people who do this every day scratching our heads.By some calculations, with credit for the nine months he has already spent in jail, plus a break included in a sentencing law just approved by Congress, Mr. Manafort could serve out Judge Elliss sentence in just 22 months.The judge had predicted some pushback, but he may not have expected how his decision reverberated around the nation, provoking a social media firestorm that swept up public defenders, prosecutors and ordinary citizens. William N. Nettles, a former United States attorney in South Carolina, called Judge Elliss decision sentencing disparity on steroids.How in the world can we make sense of the sentences that we have been handing down to the poor and to those people of color who didnt have nearly the opportunities that Paul Manafort had to make an honest living? asked Mr. Nettles, who was an Obama administration appointee.Scott Hechinger, a public defender in Brooklyn and a pithy presence on criminal justice on Twitter, made a similar point. For context on Manaforts 47 months in prison, my client yesterday was offered 36-72 months in prison for stealing $100 worth of quarters from a residential laundry room, he wrote.Many legal experts criticize sentencing guidelines as unduly punitive. But in four out of five criminal cases, sentences fall within or above the guideline range, unless the government specifically requests a lighter punishment. In Mr. Manaforts case, prosecutors recommended no specific punishment, but said the range of 19 to 24 years had been rightly calculated.Rachel E. Barkow, a former member of the United States Sentencing Commission, said she had expected Mr. Manaforts punishment to fall below the guidelines. In fraud cases, the recommended penalty can skyrocket depending on the amount of money involved, she said, leading many judges to opt for a lighter sentence.But Judge Ellis cut the punishment far more drastically than she expected, said Ms. Barkow, a law professor at New York University.Judge Ellis said the guidelines for Mr. Manaforts crimes were distorted by a 2017 decision by the Justice Department that increased the recommended punishment for failing to disclose a foreign bank account, which was one of eight counts Mr. Manafort was convicted of after a lengthy jury trial in his courtroom. He also noted that he had sentenced another defendant who had hidden $200 million in overseas accounts and evaded $18 million in taxes to only seven months in prison, plus restitution.Greg D. Andres, the lead prosecutor on the case, argued that Mr. Manafort was different because the jury had found him guilty not only of hiding his wealth and evading $6 million in taxes, but also of deceiving banks to obtain millions of dollars in loans. The two bank fraud counts were the most serious charges he was convicted of, each carrying a maximum penalty of 30 years in prison.Mr. Andres also urged Judge Ellis to take the broader picture of Mr. Manaforts behavior into account, including the crimes he admitted to as part of his plea agreement in a related case in Washington. Mr. Manafort acknowledged he was guilty of 10 other felonies on which the Virginia jury had deadlocked 11 to 1, including several more counts of bank fraud.But Judge Ellis seemed to see Mr. Manaforts case as more strictly about tax evasion. He noted that one fraudulent loan application was never actually approved, and questioned whether Mr. Manafort had in fact intended to cause that bank a loss when he lied to get another loan. I dont know that theres any other way to defraud a bank and not intend it to lose the money, Mr. Andres replied.Carl Tobias, a professor at the University of Richmond School of Law, said Judge Elliss sentence seemed strangely light, especially given that the judge denied every objection raised by Mr. Manaforts lawyers to the sentencing guidelines. He refuted all of the arguments of the defense, yet ultimately ruled very much in favor of their client, Mr. Tobias said.He was also struck, he said, by the judges praise of Mr. Manaforts character. Hes lived an otherwise blameless life, Judge Ellis said of a man who acknowledged orchestrating a sophisticated financial fraud scheme that lasted a decade. And hes also earned the admiration of a number of people.To the very end, Judge Ellis showed his distaste for special counsels. He said the office of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, had the authority to prosecute Mr. Manafort, but that doesnt mean that I decided the wisdom or appropriateness of delegating to special prosecutors broad powers. Judge Ellis cut off a prosecutor as he tried to explain the special counsels position on the appropriate fine for Mr. Manafort, admonishing: Thats the governments position. I dont want to hear special counsel.The defense has played on the judges sentiments, insisting that Mr. Manafort has been relentlessly pursued for garden-variety crimes only because of his importance to the special counsels inquiry into Russian interference in 2016 presidential election. On Thursday, Kevin Downing, Mr. Manaforts lead lawyer, took up that refrain again, repeatedly saying that a local United States attorneys office would have handled the case differently.In federal court in Washington, where Judge Amy Berman Jackson will sentence Mr. Manafort next week on two conspiracy charges, that strategy has been noticeably less effective.Some legal experts suggested that Mr. Muellers team might respond to Judge Elliss decision by asking Judge Jackson for a specific sentence on the two conspiracy charges, which each carry a maximum penalty of five years.But few expect her to be influenced by the Virginia judges decision. Its not her job to use her sentence as a moment to correct what she thinks went wrong in this case, Ms. Barkow said.One of the biggest issues remaining for Mr. Manafort is whether he will be allowed to serve out his two sentences simultaneously. Prosecutors have taken no stand on that so far, but indicated in a sentencing memorandum that they might do so after Judge Elliss decision.Sharon LaFraniere reported from Washington, and Alan Blinder from Beauregard, Ala.OpinionCristian FariasAdvertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byletterTragedies like Parkland can never be funny, a reader says, linking the comedians remarks to President Trumps attacks on a wide range of targets.To the Editor:Re Louis C.K. Ridicules Survivors of Parkland (news article, Jan. 1):In the Trump era of American politics, Louis C.K.s use of survivors of Parklands tragic shootings as a gag line is not unpredictable. Applause at Trump rallies often comes after personal attacks and disparaging remarks directed at a group or individual, including the disabled, political rivals, the fake news media, disgruntled past supporters, foreign leaders who dare to oppose the president, immigrants, Muslims and so on.It is truly shameful that the political atmosphere in America today makes someone like Louis C.K. think that his remarks are perfectly acceptable. Tragedies like Parkland can never be funny, and anyone who thinks so should never be given a microphone again.Doris FenigBoca Raton, Fla.Advertisement"
"OpinionIm an African-American historian and, on most issues, decidedly liberal. Could I rethink my anti-gun stance?Aisha ""Purple"" Tonkins teaches gun safety in Philadelphia.CreditCreditDamon Winter/The New York TimesSupported byBy Tiya MilesMs. Miles is a professor of history at Harvard. On a bright, cold morning last November, I walked Bostons Black Heritage Trail, a hidden gem among the citys trove of historic sites. I had followed it decades ago as a graduate student and was returning now with my mother after a recent move to Massachusetts. I was especially looking forward to revisiting one stop on the trail  Lewis Haydens house, in the now-affluent Beacon Hill neighborhood.Haydens story had made a strong impression on me. His immediate family was shattered by slavery. He had escaped from Lexington, Ky., not far from where I grew up in Ohio, and went on to build a remarkable life in Boston. Years after my first visit to the house, which was a stop on the Underground Railroad, I could still picture the green window shutters and elegant doorway. I associated Lewis Hayden with the place where I grew up, with family, perseverance and good will. So I was disconcerted by what I found when I arrived at the house that autumn day.The ruddy bricks, green shutters and white curtains were just as I remembered them. But here was something new  a red, white and blue sticker on the windowpane trumpeting the National Rifle Association. This moment, which might not have caused a reaction in others, set me on a path of reflection, not just on the life of Hayden and those like him, but on the meanings of African-American gun ownership and my own deeply held beliefs about guns. What I learned surprised me.My response to seeing the sticker was strong. I am an African-American historian and, on the matter of guns and most other political issues, decidedly liberal. To me, the pairing of Lewis Hayden and the N.R.A. felt like an affront. I knew for certain that Hayden fought for the right to be free from violent repression by white citizens wielding the weapons of guns, capital and political influence. I knew that he lost his family through a cruel, extractive system that reinforced  in fact, depended on  the ability of whites to inflict violence on the bodies of black people without legal repercussion.The N.R.A., on the other hand, has long been a boogeyman for me. I see it as an organization that stands in the way of laws to get automatic rifles out of the hands of people who might kill school children, hardened  or unresponsive  to the destruction that rampant gun violence wreaks. Who would plaster this flagrant symbol of white conservatism on the antique home of a black abolitionist who knew what it meant to be hunted? And why?These questions nagged at me after my visit. I soon set out to get answers. I contacted the National Parks of Boston, who passed along my contact information to the private owners of the Hayden House. I expected to hear nothing back; instead, I received an invitation. I accepted and agreed to return to the house in February.Beforehand, I reviewed the basic historical facts of Haydens life. When Hayden was a boy, his owner, Adam Rankin (a Presbyterian minister), tore him from his mother and siblings and distributed them to different buyers. Rankin sold Hayden himself for a pair of carriage horses, a trade that honed the young mans scathing analysis of slaverys antihumanism.In adulthood, Haydens first wife and child were also snatched away for the market. Hayden somehow made a new life, remarried, had a son, escaped with his new family to Boston, and operated an apparel shop with his spouse, Harriet Hayden.After earning enough to purchase his freedom (ransoming the life that should have always been his own), Hayden organized a fund-raiser to pay a $650 fine securing the release from jail of the white abolitionist who had aided his escape (a Methodist minister from the Midwest, Calvin Fairbank). Hayden chose the activist life, fighting for the dignity of others as part of what the historian Manisha Sinha called the shock troops of fugitive slave rescues, in her book The Slaves Cause. The home that the Haydens made, the one I would soon be visiting, became a refuge for the hunted.On the day of my visit, the homeowners, Mary and John Gier, ushered me in with warm smiles and graciously served tea and cookies. The couple, who are proud of their heritage (English, Dutch, Irish and German) but resist hyphenated labels like Euro-American or African-American, told me they bought the house in the 1970s. They cherish their historic home and have preserved or replicated most of the original features: cabinetry, doors, windows, flooring, fireplaces, and exterior brown brick. Even the 19th-century tunnel is visible in the subbasement. Lovingly restored and furnished with period antiques, the house looks much the same as it might have during Haydens residence. Harriet Beecher Stowe probably sat there having tea just like you are, they noted. This is the same room where Hayden met with his band of resisters.Mrs. Gier confirmed that the sticker was a relatively recent addition to the facade, but it was clear she and her husband saw the N.R.A. emblem as simpatico with the homes spirit. To them, Lewis Hayden is a model for America. Mrs. Gier thinks if he were alive today, he would be a member of the N.R.A. or the National African-American Gun Association. Can you imagine what would have happened had he not had his guns? she said. I believe that Hayden would have left no stone unturned to maintain his defense. In that sense, he is not unlike our law-abiding citizens today who are protecting their constitutional rights.I am anti-gun and support strict gun control laws. But sipping tea with the homeowners, walking the floors where the Haydens and their compatriots had plotted what turned out to be the roots of a political revolution to overturn slavery, pried ajar a little door in my mind.Hayden was indeed a man who believed in firepower. He was legendary for threatening slave catchers who showed up at his doorstep in pursuit of fugitives. His home was converted into a veritable fortress, with doors and windows double locked and barred, write the historians James Oliver Horton and Lois Horton in Black Bostonians. The Hortons describe William and Ellen Crafts visit in 1848, after the pair fled Georgia in a brilliant escape from slavery. William posed as the property of his wife, a woman light enough to pass for white. Ellen dressed like a man to perfect the ruse. Their destination was the Hayden home where, as the story goes, Haydens son and a number of armed men secured the premises. Two kegs of gunpowder had been placed on the front porch, and while the slave catchers watched in disbelief, Hayden lit a torch threatening to blow up his house, himself, and anyone attempting to enter.While the historian Stephen Kantrowitz cautions in his book More Than Freedom that Haydens actions were embellished over time, he traces the claim that Hayden had readied kegs of gunpowder in the basement, in case slave hunters forced their way inside, to a statement by William Craft himself. Drawings of the interior of Haydens home from an 1889 edition of The Boston Evening Transcript show rifles leaning against the back parlor wall above the caption: The Guns Were Always Ready for Use in an Emergency. Of course, Hayden was not alone in his stance of armed self-defense in the pre-Civil War era. Ms. Sinha notes: Black abolitionists, especially those involved in the abolitionist underground and Vigilance Committees, tended to arm themselves  fugitive slaves, often resorted to armed self-defense when confronted by slave catchers and law enforcement. The Underground Railroad activist Harriet Tubman was said to carry a revolver and did not hesitate to point it, according to her biographer, Sarah Bradford. Of course, just as racism and discrimination did not disappear, neither did the movement for black self-defense. In the tumultuous civil rights era of the 1950s and 60s, black activists and community organizers openly took up arms. And not just those in the more explicitly militant Black Power movement. Martin Luther King Jr., several N.A.A.C.P. officials and other leaders perceived as much more dovish, still carried or stored weapons to defend their households and communities from potential attacks. What about today? In what might be described as another moment of peril for African-Americans  with rates of racially motivated hate crimes on the rise, organized white supremacist rallies and open advocacy of white power ideology becoming more common  black gun ownership has surged. The numbers increased markedly after the election of Donald Trump, according to reporting from NPR. Some identify as gun-comfortable, like the political scientist Jason Johnson, who attended the 2017 N.R.A. convention and concluded at The Root.com that the event stoked white fear of imaginary terrorists, black thugs and immigrants. Others are super assertively pro-gun, like Maj Toure, founder of Black Guns Matter. Mr. Toure is a former member of the N.R.A., and he told me in a phone interview that there are many more black members who will speak of their involvement only in hushed tones. While he is critical of the N.R.A. for not doing more for urban Americans, he sees the group as an important civil rights organization.In 2015, Philip Smith founded the National African-American Gun Association in Georgia. His members, he said, are predominantly first-time gun owners and educated professionals, engineers, doctors, state workers, federal workers, stay-at-home moms. While he has close ties to the N.R.A., Mr. Smiths goal was to build a black association that was self-governed, self-maintained, self-driven. Today, Mr. Smith said, the N.A.A.G.A. has 75 chapters in 30 states. He expects to be in every state within a year. Black gun owners are not a monolith, Mr. Smith stresses. We have black Republicans, Democrats, gay, straight. In what may come as a surprise to some, black women make up 60 percent of the associations membership, according to the group. Women are the ones driving our organization, driving gun sales, he said. Even black gun owners preparing for natural or human-made disasters (preppers), which he estimates make up about 5 to 10 percent of N.A.A.G.A.s membership, are growing in visibility.Sharon Ross, creator of the website Afrovivalist, sees Afro-survivalism as a growing movement inclusive of all people of color. She said she counsels and trains women of color who want to be armed. Its amazing what we dont know, Ms. Ross said, speaking by phone from her home in Oregon. As people of color, we dont have the stockpile that the average Joe white guy has. Ms. Ross said she is preparing for extremes  climate disaster, even war. If there is some kind of race war  or whatever it might be  were definitely outnumbered when it comes to firearms and bullets. In 2018, she was featured in an episode on black survivalists in BuzzFeeds Netflix documentary series Follow This.Aton Edwards, founder of the International Preparedness Network, was featured in a segment of the show as well. In one scene he addresses a group of trainees, asking: Whats our community going to do? Ask for help? From the Trump administration?  Every other day on the internet were hit with another racist attack, and another, and another. This is America in 2018. Youd think that this is 1818, the way this is going down. An essay on black gun history posted to the N.A.A.G.A. website quotes anti-lynching activist Ida B. Wells as lauding the Winchester rifle and abolitionist Frederick Douglass as heralding the ballot box, the jury box, and the cartridge box. African-American gun proponents link the present-day climate to struggles of two hundred years ago and conclude that wisdom compels armed defense.Even as the survivalist movement took me a distance from my own experience (unlike Ms. Ross, I would have no idea how to kill a wild turkey and roast it for dinner), I began to wonder: What about those close to me? I took an informal family poll that left me reeling. I learned my relatives have guns. They store weapons in hidden chambers inside homes where we gather; they possess permits to carry concealed weapons and take target practice; they have friends who bring guns to church in case the congregation should need shielding; they are prepared to protect my family no matter who comes through the door and readying themselves for a major environmental act.At last, I was left having to examine myself. Youre not anti-gun, Mr. Toure told me. Ask yourself this. Its a zombie apocalypse. Tomorrow, you wake up, and you cant find your children. You go out to search for them. Do you want a gun now? His analogy was not outlandish. This was, of course, the constant threat enslaved people endured. Had I been fooling myself about my anti-gun stance? I dont think so, but I did come to realize through a series of unexpected exchanges that the issue was more complicated than I had allowed and that my views of just coexistence and human flourishing might not require the absolute prohibition of arms.I concede that Lewis Hayden could be viewed as a champion of the right to bear arms in defense of freedom. But more than that, he dedicated himself to community building, forging a complex, self-funded, interracial network of people joined in common cause. Guns were there to defend those things. The home he made with Harriet was a gathering place for the Boston Vigilance Committee, for progressive white Bostonians and for members of the enslaved and free black population. Mr. Kantrowitz observed that Hayden sought to build a world of common struggle against slavery in which racial hierarchy seemed to dissolve into human unity and affection. Together, Lewis and Harriet Hayden opened their doors to those on the run, turning their home into a haven for strangers whom the federal government deemed illegals.This is the essence of his example that I hope our community and country will follow. After sipping tea at the Hayden House, I am still suspicious of the N.R.A., and I would not abide having a gun inside my dwelling or my childrens schools. But where would I want to be if civil society topples and 2020 feels like 1820? In a home like the Haydens, in a neighborhood like the North Slope of 19th-century Beacon Hill, in a community fortified by love in action and maybe a powder keg beneath the floorboards.Tiya Miles is a professor of history at Harvard and the author of The Dawn of Detroit: A Chronicle of Slavery and Freedom in the City of the Straits.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email:letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.An earlier version of this article incorrectly identified the founder of the group Black Guns Matter as a member of the National Rifle Association. He is a former member of the N.R.A.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON  U.S. President Donald Trump said on Saturday he had not read Special Counsel Robert Mueller's report investigating contacts between his 2016 campaign and Russia that his Democratic opponents say should be released in full.""I have not read the Mueller Report yet, even though I have every right to do so,"" Trump wrote on Twitter. ""Only know the conclusions, and on the big one, No Collusion.""U.S. Attorney General William Barr has said he plans to make public a redacted copy of the nearly 400-page investigative report into Russian interference in the 2016 election by the middle of this month, if not sooner.On March 22, Mueller completed his 22-month probe and Barrsent a four-page letter to Congress two days later outlining the main findings. Barr told lawmakers the investigation did not establish that members of Trump's election campaign conspired with Russia, but also did not exonerate the president on obstruction of justice.Barr said he had concluded there was not enough evidence to show that Trump committed the crime of obstruction. But news media reports this week said members of Mueller's team were unhappy with the way Barr, a Trump appointee, had characterized the report's conclusions. Asked in an interview with Fox and Friends Weekend about calls for the release of the full confidential report, Trump said: Its really up to the attorney general, whatever he wants to do. In another tweet, Trump called the report ""a total waste of time.""Barr did not meet a demand by Democrats in the U.S. House of Representatives to provide the unredacted report to lawmakers by April 2.He told Congress in a letter last week he must redact material that was presented to a grand jury, as required by law, as well as information that could reveal U.S. intelligence agencies' sources and methods. Congressional Democrats have indicated they will fight those redactions in court if the subpoena is ignored. Russia's government has denied interfering in the U.S. election. (Reporting by Lucia Mutikani and David Brunnstrom; Editing by Tom Brown)Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie HabermanPresident Trump said on Wednesday that he had essentially fired Defense Secretary Jim Mattis last month because he was dissatisfied with Mr. Mattiss performance in the top civilian job at the Pentagon.His latest public criticism of Mr. Mattis, a retired Marine general, who resigned on Dec. 20 after failing to persuade Mr. Trump to change his mind about withdrawing the 2,000 American troops now in Syria, came at a time when the admiration Mr. Trump once regularly expressed for senior military officers has given way to anger at the retired officers who have questioned his character and condemned his performance in office now that they are civilians.Once Mr. Trump treated the military with a level of reverence that he extends to few other American institutions. Peppering his cabinet with retired senior officers enabled him to allay the concerns within the Republican Party about his own lack of experience and preparedness for the role of president. He has spoken admiringly of my generals and talked about those who looked the part.They were like from a movie, he said on Wednesday, describing a recent Pentagon briefing. Better looking than Tom Cruise, and stronger.But in the past few months, in ways big and small, some of the militarys most prominent figures, no longer inhibited by active duty, have spoken out against Mr. Trump in caustic terms, describing him as unfit for the presidency. And as in other situations where he has felt under attack, Mr. Trump has responded to criticism of his leadership by lashing out at his accusers.After the president pulled the security clearance of John O. Brennan, a former director of the C.I.A., the retired Adm. William H. McRaven, a Navy SEAL who oversaw the raid that killed Osama bin Laden, wrote in The Washington Post that Mr. Trump has embarrassed us in the eyes of our children.Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal, who commanded American-led troops in Afghanistan from 2009 to 2010, said recently that Mr. Trump does not tell the truth, and has urged Americans to decide how much they are willing to tolerate from the president.Gen. David H. Petraeus, a former director of the C.I.A., who was once seen as a potential administration official, recently said he would not work for Mr. Trump. And Gen. John F. Kelly, who stepped down this week as White House chief of staff, said in an exit interview that his tenure at the White House should be judged on what he prevented the president from doing.Over the holidays, amid criticism of this abrupt announcement of withdrawing American troops from Syria, Mr. Trump escalated his attacks, condemning the failed generals who had overseen Middle East engagements. He attacked Mr. McChrystal, who called Mr. Trump immoral in an appearance on ABC News over the weekend, writing on Twitter that he has a big, dumb mouth and is a Hillary lover. In a tweet weeks ago, he attacked Mr. McRaven for not killing bin Laden sooner.I think that we can expect more of this in the future now that the lines been crossed, said Peter R. Mansoor, a retired Army colonel and a former aide to Mr. Petraeus, who is now a professor at Ohio State University. Im not sure its healthy for civil-military relations.The risk, Colonel Mansoor said, is that whether the criticism is deserved or not, future presidents may be less willing to trust their senior officers, thinking theyll turn on them once theyre out of uniform, or they may be less willing to promote officers who are very competent but perhaps independently minded.While Mr. Mattiss resignation was the first over a major national security issue by a leading cabinet member since 1980, when Cyrus Vance quit as secretary of state, his conflict with Mr. Trump was hardly the first time that there have been clashes between civilian and military officials.In 2006, a number of retired military officers publicly rebuked Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld for his handling of the Iraq war. In 1993, President Bill Clinton was at odds with military officials over allowing gay men and lesbians in the military. And there was a hefty amount of distrust between President Barack Obama and military officials over the administrations approach to Iraq and Afghanistan.During the 2016 presidential campaign, Michael T. Flynn, a retired Army lieutenant general, led chants of Lock her up! about Hillary Clinton at the Republican National Convention, while John R. Allen, a retired Marine general, as a speaker at the Democratic National Convention, questioned Mr. Trumps ability to be the commander in chief.But Peter Feaver, a former National Security Council official under Mr. Clinton and President George W. Bush who now teaches political science at Duke University, said Mr. Trump has taken these clashes to a new level.Weve never had a president who was as insensitive to the norms and taboos of the military, Mr. Feaver said. People like McChrystal, people like McRaven and the others are responding to the presidents breaking of these taboos.No American president has ever dared risk the American civil-military relationship for less cause or with such childish malice, Tom Nichols, a professor at the Naval War College, wrote in The Atlantic after the McChrystal tweets.In tweets of his own, Mr. McRaven defended Mr. McChrystal from Mr. Trumps attacks.Stan McChrystal is one of the great generals of this generation and the finest officer I ever served with. He is a deep strategic thinker, tactically brilliant, with unparalleled personal courage. His leadership of special operations forces in Iraq and Afghanistan, he wrote, unquestionably saved the lives of thousands of American and allied troops, as well as countless civilians. No general I know has given more in the service of this country.Mr. Trumps public criticism of Mr. Mattis, who was long considered the adult in the presidents cabinet, was apparently provoked by his letter of resignation, in which Mr. Mattis outlined his own views about the value of alliances and wrote that the president was entitled to have a defense secretary whose views were better aligned with yours.Mr. Mattis had originally said he planned to remain at the Pentagon through February to allow for an orderly transition. But after his letter received intense media coverage, Mr. Trump abruptly ordered him to leave the job as of Jan. 1.Whats he done for me? How has he done in Afghanistan? Not too good, Mr. Trump said on Wednesday at a cabinet meeting that turned into an extended question-and-answer session with reporters. Im not happy with what hes done in Afghanistan, and I shouldnt be happy.As you know, President Obama fired him, and essentially so did I, the president said, referring to the fact that Mr. Mattis served as commander of the militarys Central Command under Mr. Obama, but retired a few months earlier than expected in 2013 after repeatedly clashing with Mr. Obamas national security team over policy in the region, especially regarding Iran.Mr. Trump then praised himself for providing money for soldiers in Afghanistan, and said that Mr. Mattis was thrilled when it happened.He also said that he thought he himself wouldve been a good general, adding, but who knows.An earlier version of this article misspelled the name of a former Qaeda leader. It is Osama bin Laden, not Osama bin Landen.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Ashley Calloway-Blatch and Lance BoothHere are the weeks top stories, and a look ahead.1. Virginias lieutenant governor, Justin E. Fairfax, above, has refused to resign in the face of sexual assault allegations, giving Democrats an excruciating choice: whether to impeach a black leader at a moment when the states two other top leaders, both white, are also resisting calls to quit after admitting to racist behavior.A second woman said on Friday that Mr. Fairfax had sexually assaulted her, echoing an accusation made earlier in the week. Both accusations came within a few days of Gov. Ralph Northam and Attorney General Mark R. Herring acknowledging that they wore blackface as young men. How Virginia Democrats handle these three state officials  who swept into office in 2017 on the first wave of backlash after President Trumps election  will reverberate beyond the states borders.We examine how Virginias history of race and politics is now under intense scrutiny and give a day-by-day breakdown of the scandals.Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And heres the front page of our Sunday paper, the Sunday Review from Opinion and our crossword puzzles.____2. President Trump delivered a message of unity on Tuesday night during his second State of the Union address  but continued to push the hard-line immigration policies that have divided the capital and the nation. We checked the facts on some of Mr. Trumps remarks.From Nancy Pelosi of California presiding as House speaker to the island of white created by the women on one side of the chamber, the Democrats resurgence was on full display at the State of the Union, our chief Washington correspondent writes.And with the looming Feb. 15 deadline to prevent another government shutdown, Mr. Trump is moving toward accepting a border security deal that would fall short of his demand for $5.7 billion in funds for a wall along the southwestern border.____3. Pope Francis acknowledged that priests and bishops in the Roman Catholic Church have sexually abused nuns, the first time he has publicly addressed the issue. Above, a nun outside Vatican City in August.A recent article in a Vatican magazine mentioned nuns having abortions or giving birth to the children of priests. Its true, the pope replied when he was asked to comment on Tuesday. There are priests and bishops who have done that.Advocates for abused nuns were relieved that Francis had finally put the issue on the churchs radar. But they also noted that this problem has existed for years, and that the pope did not seem to suggest there would be a speedy solution.In India, the church has acknowledged a nuns accusation that a bishop raped her 13 times, but only after five of her fellow nuns mutinied and publicly rallied to her side.____4. In a surprise vote, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., above, joined the Supreme Courts liberal wing in a 5-to-4 decision blocking a Louisiana law that could have severely restricted abortion in the state.Chief Justice Robertss vote shows that while his general approach is to lean right, he is also a guardian of his courts legitimacy and wants to make modest and deliberate moves, our Supreme Court reporter writes.The Louisiana case is not over, and the court is likely to hear a challenge to the law on its merits during the next term. Anti-abortion activists nationwide still believe they have their best chance in years to aggressively curb abortion access.____5. Matthew G. Whitaker, the acting attorney general, above, told the House Judiciary Committee on Friday that he had never used his position to provide inside information about the Russia investigation to President Trump or his proxies.During a somewhat contentious oversight hearing, he also said he had not interfered in any way with the special counsels investigation. But he refused to discuss his conversations with Mr. Trump or why he recently said the special counsels inquiry would soon wrap up.William P. Barr is expected to be confirmed by the Senate and sworn in as Mr. Whitakers replacement as soon as this week. And Mr. Trump announced Monday that he would nominate David Bernhardt to succeed Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke.____6. Liberal Democrats, including Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, above, introduced their Green New Deal on Thursday with a sweeping resolution that would combat climate change, create jobs and counter President Trumps challenge to core party values.The resolution calls on the United States to eliminate additional emissions of carbon by 2030. While it is unlikely to get far, some ideas could advance as part of more modest legislation.NASA scientists said Wednesday that the Earths average surface temperature in 2018 was the fourth highest in nearly 140 years of record-keeping. Were no longer talking about a situation where global warming is something in the future, said the director of the group that conducted the analysis. Its here. Its now.____7. Jeff Bezos, above, accused the company behind The National Enquirer of extortion and blackmail, writing that the company threatened to publish graphic photos of him if he did not publicly affirm that The Enquirers reporting on his extramarital affair was not politically motivated.If in my position I cant stand up to this kind of extortion, how many people can? wrote Mr. Bezos, the founder of Amazon and the owner of The Washington Post. You can read excerpts from his blog post here.Federal prosecutors are now reviewing Mr. Bezos claim, according to two people briefed on the matter.____8. A deluge of toxic mud stretched for five miles, crushing homes, offices and people  more than 150 of them were killed when a mining dam collapsed in Brazil in January.The tragedy in the town of Brumadinho was hardly a surprise, experts told us. There are 88 mining dams in Brazil built like the one that failed: enormous reservoirs of mining waste held back by little more than walls of sand and silt.We took an expansive look at the disaster, reconstructing the muds deadly journey and illustrating how these dams are built and what led the one in Brumadinho to crumple.____9. The Grammy Awards, airing Sunday night on CBS, are supposed to be musics biggest party. But as the show tries to stay culturally relevant while also balancing the demands of race and gender representation, it may be impossible to please everybody at once, our music reporter writes.Ariana Grande and Cardi B, who are up for a collective seven Grammys, recently released music videos in which they celebrated outrageous wealth and womens bodies  and theres hardly a man in sight. This weeks In Her Words, our gender newsletter, takes a glimpse at the history of female artists flexing their independence.Elsewhere in the entertainment world, Saturday Night Live mocked the medias fascination with Jeff Bezos private photos and tore into the Virginia blackface controversy.____10. Finally, dont miss our Best Weekend Reads.Mothers in Japan, like Yoshiko Nishimasa, above, are shouldering most of the work at home, including daily preschool paperwork, with little help from fathers; thousands of agricultural families descend on Denver for a 16-day celebration of Western heritage; and 63 years ago, a retired actor found a Greenwich Village apartment for $90 a month and never left.For more suggestions on what to read, watch and listen to, may we suggest these nine new books our editors liked, a glance at the latest small-screen recommendations from Watching, and our music critics latest playlist.Have a great week.Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe attorney general, William P. Barr, will determine how much of the special counsels Russia report will be shared with Congress or the public. By Michael Tackett and Eileen SullivanThe delivery of a report late Friday afternoon from Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, to Attorney General William P. Barr might seem like the conclusion of a long-running drama, but it is only the end of the beginning. Mr. Mueller is not recommending any new charges be filed, a Justice Department official said, but lawmakers conducting their own inquiries will still be able to refer criminal charges to the department.Top members of Congress, and several Democratic presidential candidates, urged Mr. Barr to quickly release as much information as possible. In a letter, Mr. Barr told lawmakers he might be able to share principal conclusions of the report this weekend.Mr. Barr will decide how much of the report to release to Congress or the public, and where the case of Russian election interference goes.The White House has not received or been briefed on the special counsels report, said Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary.Mr. Mueller did not suggest additional charges as part of his investigation, when he delivered his findings to Mr. Barr on Friday. This caps the special counsels charges at 199, filed against 34 people and three companies.The principal conclusions of the special counsel investigation, which Mr. Barr said he might be able to share with lawmakers in the coming days, are not likely to include many details. In a letter to lawmakers, Mr. Barr said he would consult with Mr. Mueller and the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, about what other information from the report can be released.Mr. Muellers report could be brief or several hundred pages. It is now up to Mr. Barr to decide how much of it to share with Congress, and when.The late Friday afternoon news dump in Washington is typically reserved space by those wishing to bury bad news. In the case of Mr. Muellers report, bad news is most assuredly in the eye of the beholder. In a brief interview, Mr. Trumps lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani, was circumspect about what comes next. We are confident the attorney general will make the right decision, he said. He has to consider the legal matters and rules. Im confident hell make the right call. Hes a very good lawyer  a fine lawyer. Were very comfortable with any decision.Mr. Giuliani said that he planned to remain in Washington over the weekend, in part because Mr. Barr said he may update Congress on Mr. Muellers findings soon.[Maggie Haberman, Michael Schmidt, Mark Mazzetti and more of our journalists explained what the submission of the full report means and what may come next.]Shortly after the report was delivered, Jay Sekulow and Rudolph W. Giuliani, Mr. Trumps personal lawyers, offered a brief statement:Were pleased that the Office of Special Counsel has delivered its report to the Attorney General pursuant to the regulations, they said. Attorney General Barr will determine the appropriate next steps.The Mueller investigation was closed without Mr. Trump ever sitting for a formal interview. The presidents lawyers were fearful of what he might say under penalty of perjury, and did not want him to sit for one. They anticipated that Mr. Mueller would not engage in a protracted battle to try to subpoena the president, and Mr. Mueller never did. The investigators did receive written answers to questions.Among those traveling with Mr. Trump to Florida aboard Air Force One on Friday was the new White House counsel, Pat Cipollone. The counsels office anticipates reviewing the report for possible issues related to executive privilege.With the delivery of the report looming, in Florida, at the presidents Mar-a-Lago resort, Mr. Trump and his top aides stuck to business as usual: meeting with five Caribbean leaders, placing a phone call to Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, and, of course, tweeting.But a sense of anxiety loomed, and Mr. Trumps Twitter posts added to the confusion on a day in which everyone around Mr. Trump was bracing for the end of the Russia investigation and what it might mean for his presidency. A confusing tweet by Mr. Trump at 1:22 p.m. seemed to roll back sanctions on North Korea, undermining his Treasury secretary, although later in the day, officials tried to clarify that Mr. Trump was talking about sanctions that were under consideration but not yet announced.Aides were waiting to see what language Mr. Muellers team used in the report about the presidents actions before pushing ahead with a more vocal response.Mr. Trump has said that the report should be made public. But lawmakers are not relying on him. In a joint statement, the two top Democrats in Congress, Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer said that it is imperative for Mr. Barr to make the full report public and provide its underlying documentation and findings to Congress. Attorney General Barr must not give President Trump, his lawyers or his staff any sneak preview of Special Counsel Muellers findings or evidence, and the White House must not be allowed to interfere in decisions about what parts of those findings or evidence are made public.Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia and ranking member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, echoed that sentiment. Congress and the American people deserve to judge the facts for themselves, Mr. Warner said. The special counsels report must be provided to Congress immediately, and the attorney general should swiftly prepare a declassified version of the report for the public. Nothing short of that will suffice.He pointedly added, Any attempt by the Trump administration to cover up the results of this investigation into Russias attack on our democracy would be unacceptable.Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, stopped short of calling for full disclosure.I will work with Ranking Member Feinstein and our House Judiciary Committee colleagues to ensure as much transparency as possible, consistent with the law, he said.Only a handful of law enforcement officials have seen the report, according to a Justice Department spokeswoman, Kerri Kupec.Justice Department officials notified the White House about 20 minutes before telling lawmakers, Ms. Kupec said. A security officer from the special counsels office delivered the report to the deputy attorney general, Mr. Rosenstein, on Friday afternoon, and it was handed off to Mr. Barr within minutes.After top officials looked through the report, Mr. Barrs chief of staff, Brian Rabbitt, called Emmet T. Flood, a lawyer representing the president in the Russia investigation, just after 4:30 p.m. to let him know that the department had the report.While the White House was not given the report, Mr. Rabbitt gave Mr. Flood a readout of the letter that would be delivered to Congress. The letter included important details, including the fact that Mr. Barrs summary of Mr. Muellers key findings be sent to legislators as early as Sunday evening. It also said that there were no instances when Mr. Rosenstein, the former acting attorney general, Matthew P. Whitaker, or Mr. Barr told Mr. Mueller that he could not pursue an investigative action.The Justice Department said that the investigation was complete and that any department lawyers who were working on Mr. Muellers team would return to their positions. A small number of special counsel staff will remain on, to assist in closing the operations of the special counsels office. And Mr. Mueller himself will remain the special counsel as loose ends are tied up.Democratic presidential candidates wasted no time Friday evening demanding that the special counsels finding be made public immediately  and trying to build up their electronic lists of supporters by blasting out email about the report.With no detailed information available about the report, Senators Elizabeth Warren, Cory Booker, Kirsten Gillibrand and Kamala Harris sought to focus attention and pressure on how quickly Mr. Barr would release it.Attorney General Barr  release the Mueller report to the American public. Now, Senator Warren wrote on Twitter.I am demanding the Mueller report be made immediately available for members of Congress and for the public. Anything short of full transparency will be detrimental to our country moving forward, Senator Booker tweeted.Special counsel Muellers report should be made public without any delay, Senator Gillibrand said. She also retweeted the news of the report along with three words: See you Sunday. Thats when Ms. Gillibrand is planning to formally kick off her campaign in front of Trump International Tower in New York.Senator Harris, in addition to calling for the report to be released immediately, called on Attorney General Barr to publicly testify under oath about the investigation and its findings. And Senators Harris and Warren emailed supporters to sign their petitions calling for the reports immediate release.Five additional candidates  Senators Amy Klobuchar and Bernie Sanders; former Representatives Beto ORourke and John Delaney; and Julin Castro  also called for the release of the full report.As Donald Trump said, Let it come out, Senator Sanders wrote on Twitter. I call on the Trump administration to make Special Counsel Muellers full report public as soon as possible. No one, including the president, is above the law.Since the investigation began, Americans have been guessing about what, if anything, Mr. Mueller would uncover. Mr. Trump has used an all-purpose shorthand to describe his view of the inquiry: witch hunt. James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director who was fired by Mr. Trump for his role in the investigation, in Op-Ed published Thursday in The New York Times, urged the country to look at the inquiry in a different way, beyond partisan politics.I am rooting for a demonstration to the world  and maybe most of all to our president and his enablers  that the United States has a justice system that works because there are people who believe in it and rise above personal interest and tribalism, he wrote.Throughout Friday, journalists waited anxiously for word of the delivery of the special counsel report to Mr. Barr. Cable news pundits and anchors filled airtime with speculations about whether the report would land on Friday and what it might say. Then, just after 5 p.m., news came that the report had been delivered  without any hint about what it actually said. A CBS anchor broke into postgame coverage of the N.C.A.A. mens basketball tournament to inform viewers about the reports arrival. On CNN, Wolf Blitzer read aloud from a printout of the letter that Mr. Barr had sent to members of Congress.Here are some pieces of the jigsaw puzzle. The full picture is missing.Many Democrats, notably Ms. Pelosi, have played down the prospect of bringing impeachment proceedings against the president. But several House committees have started investigations into the presidents possible connection to Russia, the role of several members of his family may have played, and a broad menu of other matters, including his personal finances.The Mueller investigation has had many plotlines, crossing oceans and delivering indictments. It can be confusing to keep track of it all. Take a look at this story to help sort it out.Here is what we know so far.Mr. Trump has been trying to lay the predicate for undermining the report. On Wednesday he said of Mr. Mueller, But its sort of interesting that a man, out of the blue, just writes a report.Mr. Mueller did not randomly or arbitrarily decide to write a report. It is mandated by regulations on the appointment of a special counsel.At the conclusion of the special counsels work, he or she shall provide the attorney general with a confidential report explaining the prosecution or declination decisions reached by the special counsel, the regulations say.Then, in an interview aired on Fox on Friday, he went on to question the authority of the Justice Department to render a judgment on an elected official. Well, its always interesting to me because a deputy that didnt get any votes appoints a man that didnt get any votes  hes going to write a report on me, Mr. Trump said. Comeys his best friend.The special counsel role is not an elected office, but the same can be said of the attorney general, deputy attorney general, or hundreds of other top officials serving in the government. Special counsels appointments occur when a potential conflict of interest arises from the executive branch of government investigating itself. Mr. Mueller was appointed by Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, who was in turn nominated by Mr. Trump.James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, has denied that he is best friends with Mr. Mueller, and Mr. Comeys lawyer has said the two men are friendly colleagues, but dont really have a personal relationship. (Mr. Barr, however, has said that he and Mr. Mueller are personal friends.)The senior prosecutor who led the case against Mr. Trumps former personal lawyer and fixer, Michael D. Cohen, announced Friday that he would leave his job as deputy United States attorney in Manhattan. Mr. Cohen has pleaded guilty to making hush payments to two women who said they had affairs with Mr. Trump. The case, which has the potential to threaten Mr. Trumps presidency, is separate from the special counsel investigation and will continue.Maggie Astor, Katie Benner, David Enrich, Carl Hulse, Maggie Haberman, Linda Qiu, Michael S. Schmidt and Michael D. Shear contributed reporting.Michael Tackett covers national politics. He has written about politics for more than 30 years and has covered six presidential elections.  @tackettdc Eileen Sullivan is the morning breaking news correspondent in Washington. She previously worked for The Associated Press for a decade, covering national security and criminal justice.  @esullivannyt Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byIf you cant do Government 101, what makes you think youre going to do Advanced Placement Government like finding the money for an infrastructure bill?RAHM EMANUEL, the Democratic mayor of Chicago and a former chief of staff for President Barack Obama, describing the obstacles to bipartisan policymaking under a bitterly divided government.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThey are expected to meet later this week in Hanoi, Vietnam.By Patrick ChappatteMr. Chappatte is an editorial cartoonist.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter.Patrick Chappatte is an editorial cartoonist for The New York Times. Viewmore of his work, visit hiswebsiteor follow him onTwitter.  @PatChappatte Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Adam LiptakWASHINGTON  The Supreme Court declined on Monday to decide whether President Trump acted lawfully in appointing Matthew G. Whitaker to be the acting attorney general, denying an unusual motion asking the justices to address that question in the context of a case about a different issue. The court also turned down the case itself.The courts order was two sentences long and gave no reasons. There were no noted dissents.The case, Michaels v. Whitaker, No. 18-496, concerned Barry Michaels, who was convicted of securities fraud in 1998 and wanted to buy a gun. He challenged a federal law banning gun ownership by people convicted of felonies on Second Amendment grounds.The request for a ruling on Mr. Whitakers appointment came in the form of a motion to change the name of the case to Michaels v. Rosenstein, on the theory that Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein is the rightful acting attorney general because Mr. Whitakers appointment violated federal statutes and the Constitution.Legal scholars are divided on whether Mr. Whitakers appointment was lawful.The answer to the question could figure in the fate of Robert S. Mueller IIIs investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 election. The investigation had been supervised by Mr. Rosenstein and has passed to Mr. Whitaker, who has been critical of it.But it became less pressing with Mr. Trumps nomination of William P. Barr to be attorney general.It would have been unusual for the Supreme Court to rule on a substantial constitutional and statutory question in the context of a motion to change the caption of a case.Mr. Michaelss lawyers included Thomas C. Goldstein, a prominent Supreme Court litigator. He wrote that prompt action by the court was warranted.If this court declines to resolve this question immediately and instead determines several months in the future that Mr. Whitakers appointment was always invalid, Mr. Goldstein wrote, then unwinding all of those personal orders would be a fraught and disruptive exercise that could embroil the federal courts in innumerable collateral disputes.In response, Solicitor General Noel J. Francisco wrote that Mr. Whitakers appointment was lawful and that a motion to change the name of the case was a procedural gambit that the justices should reject.Follow Adam Liptak on Twitter: @adamliptak.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Thomas ErdbrinkTEHRAN  Braving a drenching rain, Iranians came out in droves on Monday to march up Revolution Street to the capitals Freedom Monument, including families pushing strollers decorated with balloons in the red, white and green of the countrys flag, clerics, teenagers and others, for a huge state-backed rally commemorating the 40th anniversary of the Islamic revolution.While such rallies are organized every year on Feb. 11, this years seemed larger, despite the uninviting weather. And like some evil doppelgnger, the United States was omnipresent, despite having broken all ties with Iran in 1981.Thank god the revolution is 40 years old, someone shouted through loudspeakers mounted on lampposts along the route. Where are the Americans to witness this divine rally?President Hassan Rouhani, speaking to the sprawling crowd at the Freedom Monument, said the country was in the middle of a psychological and economical war, waged by cruel enemies. That was a clear reference to the United States and the sanctions the Trump administration reimposed after it unilaterally withdrew from a global deal over Irans nuclear program.We will stand against these sanctions together, and gain victory over America, Mr. Rouhani said, emphasizing that such resistance does not come without costs. People will face problems, they already have some problems, but we will pass them.Three men, a father and his two sons, paraded a foam effigy of a smiling President Trump with a bloated head. Two years ago we made Obama, but this Trump is our best creation to date, said one of the sons, Mohammad Zaerin, 27.There was no way they would burn it during the rally, he added. We will donate this effigy to the elementary school in our neighborhood, so the children can learn from it.In numerous interviews, the rally participants seemed well-informed about the issues facing the country, which are numerous. Economic experts are predicting an inflation rate of as much as 50 percent in the coming year, starting from March 21 in Iran. The government is grappling with a large loss in oil income, attributed to Washingtons pressure on buyers combined with low oil prices.The rial, Irans currency, has lost nearly 70 percent of its value in the past 12 months, making imports prohibitively expensive. Unemployment is high and industrial production is down. There have been sporadic labor protests, dozens of dissidents have been arrested and security forces are on high alert for possible terror attacks. Mismanagement and corruption, reported on extensively by foreign-based Persian-language satellite channels, have strongly undermined faith in Irans leaders.Every country has issues, said Mina Heydari, 45. We do too. The mother of two had come out to commemorate not only the revolution but also her brother Mohsen, who had died in the trenches during the bloody eight-year war with Iraq in the 1980s. We mustnt forget the sacrifices many have made, she said.Ms. Heydari and others present at the rally pointed to progress made since the revolution, including the participation of women in universities, achievements in nanotechnology and scientific papers.The anniversary of the revolution has over the years morphed into an ideological carnival, with the national mobile phone operator this year handing out placards saying, 40 years, the revolution has become mature.Along the route there is entertainment, provided by state organizations. Because the entertainment needs to be Islamic, there were male clowns praising the Iranian flag (the most beautiful flag in the world), silver-painted men posing as living statutes and several male choirs, all dressed in gray suits and singing high-pitched a cappella songs in praise of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the founder of the revolution.In front of a booth run by the tax ministry, not the most beloved institute in the Islamic republic, a lone Shiite cleric, Hojatolislam Ghassem Mohsen Shahroudi, had set up shop under an umbrella to answer questions from passers-by.Mr. Mohsen Shahroudi, a midlevel cleric, said the revolution had brought Iran freedom and evolution. But he acknowledged that there were Iranians who do not like clerics. Sometimes the taxis just drive past me, he said, refusing to pick him up. A degree of discontent is natural, he offered. Look at the inequality in America, look at the Yellow Vests in France, across the world everybody is unhappy. Iran is no different.Another cleric, Taghi Mollah Ahmad, passed by and chimed in. Of course, some people are displeased, but they are unhappy with the government, not with the state and the Islamic republic, he said. If they were really upset they would come and make large demonstrations, but Im not seeing that.Mr. Rouhani praised the crowds size as a victory for the system he represents, even though many in this city of 12 million stayed home, many out of sheer apathy. The presence of people today on the streets all over Islamic Iran, he said, means the enemy will never reach its evil objectives.Advertisement"
"

      By JIN WU, 
    
DEREK WATKINS and 
    
RUKMINI CALLIMACHI

MARCH 23, 2019

The Islamic State lost its last foothold in Syria on Saturday after years of fighting. But the terrorist group remains a serious, violent threat.Many of its top leaders are still alive. And it continues to carry out attacks, including one in January that killed 15 people, including four Americans, outside a shawarma restaurant in the city of Manbij, Syria. After a period of relative calm early last year, the United States-led coalition has ramped up strikes against ISIS in Syria since August.Strikes against ISIS by the U.S.-led coalition in SyriaIn April, Trump said:I want to bring our troops back home. Its time. We were very successful against ISIS.               1,000 strikesper month50020152016201720182019As of Jan. 26In April, Trump said:Strikes against ISIS by the U.S.-led coalition in SyriaI want to bring our troops back home. Its time. We were very successful against ISIS.               1,000 strikesper month50020152016201720182019As of Jan. 26Strikes against ISIS by the U.S.-ledcoalition in SyriaIn April, Trump said:I want to bring our troops back home. Its time. We were very successful against ISIS.               1,000 strikesper month50020152016201720182019As of Jan. 26Strikes against ISIS by the U.S.-ledcoalition in SyriaIn April, Trump said:I want to bring our troops back home. Its time. We were very successful against ISIS.               1,000 strikesper month50020152016201720182019Note: 2019 data is as of Jan. 26Strikes against ISIS by theU.S.-led coalition in Syria5001,000 strikesper month201520162017In April, Trump said:I want to bring our troops back home. Its time. We were very successful against ISIS.               20182019Note: 2019 data is as of Jan. 26By nearly every metric, the Islamic State is at its lowest point in the almost five years since it declared its caliphate. The group controls no territory in Iraq and Syria, attacks are down and the number of foreign fighters it continues to recruit is a fraction of what it was at its height. But analysts who have studied ISIS since its rise in Iraq more than 15 years ago point out that the group is far more powerful today than it was when American forces pulled out of Iraq in 2011.ISIS has adapted to its losses, returning to the guerilla tactics it used in the past, like targeted assassinations, bombings, ambushes and raids. The group still has tens of thousands of fighters in Iraq and Syria, according to United States Army General Joseph Votel. Territory that has been liberated remains insecure, as sleeper cells take root. Since last summer the group has carried out at least 250 attacks outside its controlled territories in Syria.ISIS attacks outside of its controlled territory(Since July 2018)AleppoCircles areISIS attacksRaqqahDeir al-ZourMediterraneanSeaSYRIAHomsAbu KamalIRAQDamascusFatalities50101No fatalities50 milesDeraaISIS attacks outside of its controlled territory(Since July 2018)AleppoCircles areISIS attacksRaqqahDeir al-ZourSYRIAHomsAbu KamalIRAQDamascusFatalities50101No fatalities50 milesISIS attacks outside of its controlled territory(Since July 2018)Circles areISIS attacksAleppoRaqqahDeir al-ZourSYRIAHomsAbu KamalIRAQDamascusFatalities50101No fatalities50 milesISIS attacks outside ofits controlled territoryAleppoRaqqahDeir al-ZourSYRIAHomsAbu KamalCircles areISIS attackssince July 2018IRAQDamascusFatalities from ISIS attacks50101No fatalities50 milesThe shift toward hit-and-run tactics, which rely on methodical surveillance and clandestine networks to deliver targeted attacks like the one in Manbij, has allowed the group to remain effective in Syria despite its loss of territory.They realized you dont have to mount 6,000 attacks per month. You just have to kill the right 50 people each month, said Michael Knights, a senior fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.The groups acolytes continue to carry out attacks beyond the Middle East, claiming responsibility for a Roman Catholic church bombing in the Philippines on Jan. 27 that killed at least 20 people. Since 2017, ISIS and its followers have carried out attacks in at least 25 countries.Attacks directed by the Islamic State since 2017U.K.RUSSIAAFGHANISTANSYRIACHINAIRAQLIBYAINDIAPAKISTANNIGERBANGLADESHNov. 24, 2017YEMENPHILIPPINESAn attack on a mosque in Egypt killed more than 300 people.Jan. 27, 2019Two bombs exploded at a cathedral, killing more than 20 people.INDONESIAAUSTRALIAAttacks directed by Islamic State since 2017RUSSIAU.K.AFGHANISTANSYRIACHINAIRAQLIBYAPAKISTANNIGERYEMENBANGLADESHNov. 24, 2017PHILIPPINESAn attack on a mosque in Egypt killed more than 300 people.Jan. 27, 2019Two bombs exploded at a cathedral, killing more than 20 people.INDONESIAAUSTRALIAAttacks directed by Islamic State since 2017RUSSIAU.K.AFGHANISTANCHINASYRIAIRAQLIBYAPAKISTANNIGERYEMENBANGLADESHNov. 24, 2017PHILIPPINESAn attack on a mosque in Egypt killed more than 300 people.Jan. 27, 2019Two bombs exploded at a cathedral, killing more than 20 people.INDONESIAAUSTRALIAAttacks directed by Islamic State since 2017RUSSIAU.K.AFGHANISTANCHINASYRIAIRAQLIBYAPAKISTANNIGERYEMENBANGLADESHNov. 24, 2017PHILIPPINESAn attack on a mosque in Egypt killed more than 300 people.Jan. 27, 2019Two bombs exploded at a cathedral, killing more than 20 people.INDONESIAAUSTRALIAAttacks directed by Islamic Statesince 2017RUSSIAU.K.AFGHANISTANSYRIAIRAQPHILIPPINESNIGERPAKISTANBANGLADESHJan. 27, 2019Nov. 24, 2017An attack on a mosque in Egypt killed more than 300 people.Two bombs exploded at a cathedral, killing more than 20 people.Attacks directed by Islamic State since 2017RUSSIAU.K.AFGHANISTANSYRIAIRAQNIGERPHILIPPINESPAKISTANBANGLADESHNov. 24, 2017Jan. 27, 2019An attack on a mosque in Egypt killed more than 300 people.Two bombs exploded at a cathedral, killing more than 20 people.The top map shows ISIS offensive movements against military forces and attacks against civilians. Sources: Armed Conflict Location & Event Data Project (maps of ISIS attacks); Global Terrorism Database, University of Maryland (maps of ISIS attacks); Combined Joint Task Force - Operation Inherent Resolve and Airwars (US-led Coalition strikes)Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON  There was a brief moment in Nancy Pelosis life when she worried she had too much power. She had so many titles in the California Democratic Party, including chairwoman, that she told Lindy Boggs, a Louisiana congresswoman, that she was thinking of giving some up.That was in 1984, and Ms. Boggs said, Darlin, no man would ever think that. Dont you give anything up, Ms. Pelosi said in a recent interview, leaning forward as she mimicked Ms. Boggss Southern accent. And then she said, Know thy power.More than three decades later, Ms. Pelosi is all but assured on Thursday of reclaiming her former title as speaker of the House, the first lawmaker in more than half a century to hold the office twice. With the gavel in hand, she will cement her status as the highest-ranking and most powerful elected woman in American political history.The story of her rise, from the well-mannered daughter of a Baltimore mayor to a savvy legislator and prolific fund-raiser who is as much feared within her caucus as she is admired, is, in some ways, the story of the womens movement itself. It is also a comeback story; after losing the speakership eight years ago, she will now usher in a new era of divided government in Washington.And in the era of #MeToo, Ms. Pelosi, a mother of five and grandmother of nine, will be the public face of the opposition to a president who won the White House after disparaging women, and paying hush money to a Playboy model and a pornographic film actress who said they had extramarital affairs with him.But Ms. Pelosi, 78, long a target of Republicans who have demonized her as a San Francisco liberal, is also coming to the speakership with self-imposed constraints. To quell an uprising among Democrats who wanted a younger generation of leaders, she has agreed to limit her term to four years. Some say that could weaken her  a notion she dismissed.Im used to, shall we say, enthusiasms from all elements of the party  I can roll with that, she said.Republicans do not underestimate her. She is a skilled adversary and a master at keeping all Democrats in line, said Representative Mark Meadows of North Carolina, the chairman of the conservative House Freedom Caucus.Ms. Pelosi knows that this speakership will be defined by how she handles President Trump. The last time she was speaker, from 2007 to 2011, legislative accomplishments made her reputation. She muscled through bills that bailed out Wall Street and helped arrest an economic free-fall, allowed gays to serve in the military, overhauled the nations banking laws and expanded access to health care for an estimated 17 million people. Many say passage of the Affordable Care Act is her signature achievement.But divided government, an unpopular president and wide-ranging, possibly criminal investigations into Mr. Trump, his presidential campaign and his businesses have changed her role drastically.This is legacy-building time, said Jennifer Lawless, an expert on women in politics at the University of Virginia. If she can be the person who is remembered for holding Trump accountable, or not letting him put forward facts that are not facts, if she can be the one who just calmly sits there and hold his feet to the fire, in a lot of ways, thats just as important as anything else she does.On a recent Saturday morning, Ms. Pelosi ducked into a closet in her office and retrieved a T-shirt that a colleague had given her, bearing the quote that she used to smack down Mr. Trump during a televised Oval Office meeting on his border wall: Dont characterize the strength that I bring.You know, its really sad. Nothing he said was true  nothing, Ms. Pelosi said of that December meeting.Her power stride out of the White House that day, in dark sunglasses and an orange coat, turned Ms. Pelosi into a fashion trendsetter; ever mindful of the messages she sends, she frets that she needs to retire the coat: If I show up with that coat, doesnt it look a little like  hey, look at me?Ms. Pelosi has long governed with a touch of gender-consciousness. When she became speaker the first time, she surrounded herself with her grandchildren and the children of other lawmakers on the podium inside the House chamber. A woman was in charge.This time Ms. Pelosi seems to be casting off maternal imagery. I put on a suit of armor, eat nails for breakfast, CNN quoted her as saying.One good friend, former Senator Barbara Boxer of California, said Ms. Pelosi seemed very liberated after surviving the challenge to her speakership, and coming off the meeting with Mr. Trump. They tried to kick her down, and I dont think she ever got down, Ms. Boxer said.A generation of young feminists is taking notice.Shes unapologetic about her ambition, shes insulting Trumps manhood and storming out of the White House in orange coat and sunglasses, said Amanda Litman, 28, and a founder of Run for Something, which recruits and supports young liberal candidates. Its very authentically her in a way that Im not sure she was able to do in past decades.Most accounts of Ms. Pelosis rise begin with her father, Thomas DAlesandro Jr., an old machine politician who doled out favors from their living room in Baltimores Little Italy. But her mother, Annunciata, was an equally powerful role model.Big Nancy, as she was known, was a strategist, an organizer of Democratic women and the keeper of what the family called the favor file. From her, Ms. Pelosi learned the power of social networking and the personal approach to give and take in negotiations.Nancy knows how to listen; she learned that from her mother, said former Senator Barbara A. Mikulski, a Baltimore native who was a few years ahead of Ms. Pelosi in their all-girls Catholic high school.Young Nancy DAlesandro had dreams of becoming a lawyer, but by the time the womens liberation movement was in full swing, she was married to her husband, Paul, and raising children.We missed the burning bra, said Rita Meyer, a college roommate and close friend. We missed the marijuana.Even when she was pushing strollers, Ms. Pelosi said, she was active in Democratic politics and pushing her own children to get involved. With her husband growing ever more successful in business, they opened their large home on one of San Franciscos most exclusive streets for Democratic events.A turning point for Ms. Pelosi came in 1976, when she got behind the presidential campaign of Gov. Jerry Brown of California. She persuaded him to compete in the Maryland Democratic primary, drawing on her ties (her brother Tommy had also been Baltimore mayor) to help engineer his victory, a setback for Jimmy Carter.I had no direct knowledge of anybody or anything in Maryland, Mr. Brown, wrapping up his second stint as governor, said in an interview. It was her idea. Just to think of that is a bold move.Ms. Pelosi then was chairwoman of the California Democratic Party and helped organize its 1984 convention. Then, in 1987, Sala Burton, the incumbent congresswoman from San Francisco who was dying of cancer, summoned Ms. Pelosi to her bedside and asked her to run to fill her seat.There were 23 women in the House  12 Democrats and 11 Republicans  when Ms. Pelosi arrived. Ms. Boxer, who was then serving in the House, recalled an event where a colleague  she could not recall who  introduced his fellow members.He goes through everybody, and then he gets to us and he said, And then theres Nancy and Barbara, Ms. Boxer recalled. She and I never forgot it.Ms. Pelosi carved out a niche as an advocate for human rights, particularly in China, and for AIDS patients, a significant part of her San Francisco constituency. She sought, and eventually landed, a seat on the powerful Appropriations Committee and a national security post on the Intelligence Committee.She was forceful about her ideas, said George Miller, a retired congressman and close friend, adding, I dont know that leadership was all that excited to hear them. At a Democratic retreat after the party lost the majority in 1994, Ms. Pelosi planned a presentation on how Democrats in California picked up seats. Almost nobody came.She said, These boys just dont know how to win, Mr. Miller remembered.In 2001, Ms. Pelosi was elected Democratic whip, beating her longtime rival, Representative Steny D. Hoyer of Maryland, to become the first woman to hold that post. The next year she was elected Democratic leader, the first woman to lead a party in Congress. At her swearing in, she distributed buttons that read, Weve waited more than 200 years for this day.Ms. Pelosi was swept into power as speaker in 2007 on a wave of revulsion over President George W. Bush and the war in Iraq. But she proved that she could work with Mr. Bush when needed; as the country faced economic collapse in 2008, she delivered the necessary votes to pass a Wall Street bailout plan  after Mr. Bushs Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., got down on one knee and begged. (I didnt know you were Catholic, she wryly said to him.)She was relentless in gathering votes, even when it put her members in jeopardy. If her own pressure campaigns and horse-trading did not work, she would call in outsiders. Henry A. Waxman, a former California congressman, recalled Ms. Pelosis effort to win over a nervous young member, Zack Space, on a climate change bill that had almost no prospects in the Senate. Mr. Space had Greek roots.She had a woman, a leader in the national Greek community, talk to him, Mr. Waxman said, and then this woman came and sat in the front row while the vote was taking place. Mr. Space got the message, voted yes, then lost his re-election.But she is most remembered for passage of the Affordable Care Act, without a single Republican vote. Norman J. Ornstein, who has studied Congress for decades at the American Enterprise Institute, called it as masterful a piece of legislating as I have ever seen.It may have been matched only by her remarkable talent for raising money. Ms. Pelosi has raised $728.3 million for Democrats since 2002, her office said.Now, after an election that ushered a record number of women into Congress, Ms. Pelosi is determined not to let another history-making moment pass. She is marking her return to power with a string of events, including a womens tea, a dinner at the Italian Embassy featuring the singer Tony Bennett and a town hall-style meeting, televised on MSNBC.Asked if she considers herself Mr. Trumps equal, she replied, The Constitution does. She frowned at the memory of a dinner at the White House last year when men talked over her, and she asked, Doesnt anybody listen to a woman in the room?Hopefully that will become a thing of the past now that we have so many women in Congress  and with the gavel, Ms. Pelosi said. The gavel makes a big difference.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Christina CaronIts been more than a century since the Wounded Knee massacre and the Battle of Little Bighorn, but both of these notorious conflicts were thrust into a national conversation about Native Americans and race following President Trumps Sunday night tweet directed at Senator Elizabeth Warren.Mr. Trump, responding to a Q. and A. that Ms. Warren posted on Instagram Live a couple of weeks ago, used a line referring to Wounded Knee and Bighorn that mocked Ms. Warrens claims of Native American heritage.In Ms. Warrens video, posted on Dec. 31, the same day she entered the 2020 race for president, she drank a beer in her kitchen and complimented her husband, who made a brief cameo.Mr. Trump, who has repeatedly referred to Ms. Warren as Pocahontas, did so again on Twitter on Sunday, then took it a step further, writing that if Ms. Warren did this commercial from Bighorn or Wounded Knee instead of her kitchen, with her husband dressed in full Indian garb, it would have been a smash!He faced swift criticism from Native Americans.+300 of my people were massacred at Wounded Knee, the writer and tribal lawyer Ruth H. Hopkins, who is Sioux, said on Twitter. Most were women and children. This isnt funny, its cold, callous, and just plain racist.Ms. Hopkins said in an interview on Monday that the trauma of the massacre hasnt been erased by time.It happened in 1890; its not so far removed. Those killed are peoples grandparents and great-grandparents, she said. Its further compounded by the fact that the soldiers who murdered Lakota at Wounded Knee received medals of honor for it and those medals have never been rescinded.Storm Reyes, 69, who is Coast Salish and lives on a reservation in Washington State, said on Monday that Wounded Knee and other such massacres are deeply ingrained in the memories of Native Americans.As a Native, Trumps tweet was equivalent to making a joke about 9/11, Pearl Harbor or the Holocaust, she said. I found it awful that not only did Trump use this tragedy as a joke, weapon and insult, but that his ignorance of American history is so great that he didnt even know that Wounded Knee was a massacre and not a battle.In a statement, Jefferson Keel, the president of the National Congress of American Indians, condemned, in the strongest possible terms, the casual and callous use of these events as part of a political attack.Hundreds of Lakota, Cheyenne, and Arapaho people lost their lives at the hands of the invading U.S. Army during these events, he said, and their memories should not be desecrated as a rhetorical punch line.For those who could use a history refresher, some context:The Wounded Knee massacre, one of the deadliest attacks on Native American people by the United States military, took place on Dec. 29, 1890. It is estimated that hundreds of Sioux Indians  men, women and children  were killed by the Seventh Cavalry on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation in southwestern South Dakota.By the late 1800s the buffalo population had been slaughtered and the Lakotas homelands had been reduced, confined to reservations where life was hard and food was scarce, Mark Hirsch, a historian at the Smithsonians National Museum of the American Indian, wrote in 2015, ahead of the 125th anniversary of the massacre. A new religious movement called the Ghost Dance had spread across Sioux Country; it was thought to help revive the Native American way of life, but it was perceived as a threat by the United States government.Native American policemen tried to arrest the Lakota Sioux Chief Sitting Bull, and ended up killing him. Tensions grew. According to Mr. Hirschs account, Chief Big Foot, leader of the Minneconjou Lakota, led his people more than 200 miles toward the Pine Ridge Reservation, where another chief had invited them to seek refuge. But they were intercepted by troops who escorted them to Wounded Knee Creek. The next day, Big Foots people were asked to surrender their weapons. A gun suddenly fired, and the soldiers started shooting. Around 300 Sioux are estimated to have died.Congress apologized to the victims 100 years later in a resolution that expressed deep regret but did not provide any reparations to the descendants or declare the remote site a national monument.Mr. Trump also referenced Bighorn, the Battle of Little Bighorn, which was fought on June 25, 1876, in what is now Montana. At the time, the federal government was forcing tribes to move to reservations. When several tribes did not leave their land, Lt. Col. George Armstrong Custer and his troops were dispatched to attack. During the battle, General Custers troops were outnumbered by Lakota Sioux and Cheyenne warriors in what became known as Custers Last Stand.In the book The Killing of Crazy Horse, the reporter Thomas Powers wrote: The fighting was intense, bloody, at times hand to hand. Men died by knife and club as well as by gunfire. More than 200 of Custers troops died.Ms. Warren and Mr. Trump have a history of trading barbs, particularly during the 2016 election  but his references to her ethnic heritage, especially his taunts labeling her as Pocahontas, have drawn the most attention.Last year Ms. Warren released the results of a DNA test that she said provided proof of her ancestry. It found that she most likely had one Native American ancestor six to 10 generations ago.Instead of neutralizing her critics, the test further inflamed criticism that she was trying to equate DNA results with cultural kinship.In October, a member of the Cherokee Nation condemned Ms. Warrens analysis in a statement.But not all Native American leaders were upset about Ms. Warrens DNA test.Richard Sneed, the principal chief of the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians, told HuffPost that Ms. Warren had always been a friend to tribes, and we need all the allies we can get.Mr. Trump tweeted twice about Ms. Warren on Sunday. The first tweet referred to Wounded Knee and Bighorn, then, nearly 10 minutes later, Mr. Trump labeled her Instagram video the Elizabeth Warren beer catastrophe, and said the best line she delivered was when she told her husband: Thank you for being here. Im glad youre here.Its their house, hes supposed to be there! Mr. Trump tweeted.Critics of the president suggested the tweets provided a distraction from the partial government shutdown (which is now the longest ever), the increased scrutiny of his relationship with Russia and Ms. Warrens presidential bid.As of Monday evening, Ms. Warren had not directly responded to Mr. Trumps taunts on social media, focusing instead on the shutdown entering its 24th day.How many more before Republicans stop crushing working families and reopen the government? she wrote on Twitter. Time to end this.An earlier version of this article misstated who killed Sitting Bull. It was Native American policemen, not United States soldiers.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe actor assesses a few statements about himself.By Maureen DowdMaureen Dowd: Matilda was actually a spoiled brat.Danny DeVito: Deny.Its not always sunny in Philadelphia.I vehemently deny that.The best cheese steak in Philly is Tony Lukes.O.K., yes, confirm.You serve rum ham at Christmas?I serve rum ham whenever I can.Michelle Pfeiffer is a better Catwoman than Anne Hathaway.[Mr. DeVito starts to nod but then decides hed better not wade into a Catwoman catfight and stops.]Michael Keatons Batman could win in a fight against Val Kilmers Batman but not against Christian Bales Batman.I think absolutely.That was an actual cold dead fish you ate as the Penguin.Yes, that was actually a baby bluefish. Dead fish. And they kept it cold for me because they are sweet.Your children had to save your life recently when you got caught in the undertow when you went to pee in the sea in Costa Rica.Thats true. Confirm.As a producer of Pulp Fiction, you actually know what was inside Marsellus Wallaces briefcase.No. I dont know.Never mind Momma. Youd like to throw Trump from the train.If given the chance.Youve never been bored.No. Never.You have your own holiday in New Jersey.Oh, I was given my name day. The 17th of November. On that day, you do anything that makes you feel great, from morning to night.Maureen Dowd, winner of the 1999 Pulitzer Prize for distinguished commentary and author of three New York Times best sellers, became an Op-Ed columnist in 1995.  @MaureenDowd  Facebook Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Thomas ErdbrinkTEHRAN  A 39-year-old cargo plane operated by the Iranian Army crashed into a residential area near the capital, Tehran, on Monday, killing 15 of the people onboard, state news media reported. One crew member survived and was hospitalized.State television said the plane struck an area neighboring the Fath airfield, northwest of Tehran, and burst into flames. It was not clear whether there were any casualties among people on the ground.The plane, a Boeing 707 passenger jet outfitted for cargo, was transporting lamb meat to Iran from Kyrgyzstan, the semiofficial news agency Mehr reported.Iran is one of the last countries to fly the 707, which was produced between 1957 and 1979. Many airplanes in the country are old: United States sanctions prevent the military and civilian carriers in Iran from buying new airplanes, and make it very difficult to obtain parts for those they already have.American sanctions were eased under the 2015 nuclear agreement, but President Trump reimposed them after he withdrew the United States from the pact last May.Pictures of the crash site showed the planes burned and broken fuselage lying between buildings, its tail section rising from a garden. Images published by the semiofficial Fars news agency showed part of the nose crashed through a wall and into a game room, with a pile of lamb carcasses outside.State television reported that the plane was attempting to land in the wrong place  a military airfield, rather than its intended destination, Payam Airport about two miles away.Mehr reported that two representatives of a meat-importing company were aboard the plane in addition to the crew.Iran has experienced dozens of fatal aviation accidents since the 1979 Islamic revolution. In February 2018, a commercial jet belonging to Iran Asseman, a domestic carrier, crashed in a mountainous region of the country, killing all 66 aboard.The plane crash on Monday comes as Boeing faces scrutiny in Indonesia over its role in the crash of Lion Air Flight 610, a brand-new Boeing 737 Max 8 that plummeted into the Java Sea in late October, killing all 189 people on board.On Monday, Indonesian officials said Navy divers had recovered the flights cockpit voice recorder, raising hopes that the recordings could help explain precisely how the pilots fought to save the plane.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Peter Baker and Edward WongWASHINGTON  His hand chopping in the air, his voice stern and stalwart, he declared that it was time for the regional despot to go and warned of the consequences if he did not. With a commander in chiefs resolve, he vowed that the United States would do whatever it took to protect its own diplomats on the ground.It was not the commander in chief but Senator Marco Rubio, the Florida Republican who nearly three years after losing his own bid for the presidency has become a lead policy architect and de facto spokesman in a daring and risky campaign involving the United States in the unrest that is now gripping Venezuela.Through sheer force of will and a concerted effort to engage and educate President Trump, Mr. Rubio has made himself, in effect, a virtual secretary of state for Latin America, driving administration strategy and articulating it to the region from the Senate floor, as he did the other day, and every television camera he can find. Perhaps no other individual outside Venezuela has been more critical in challenging President Nicols Maduro.Hes picked a battle he cant win, Mr. Rubio, 47, said of Mr. Maduro in an interview on Friday. Its just a matter of time. The only thing we dont know is how long it will take  and whether it will be peaceful or bloody.[A short, simple primer on whats happening in Venezuela.]It was Mr. Rubio who has been whispering in Mr. Trumps ear since the early days of his presidency about the depravity of Mr. Maduros government and the need for American leadership. And it was Mr. Rubio along with Vice President Mike Pence and others who urged the president to back an opposition leader seeking to unseat Mr. Maduro.He has been relentless since Trumps election, working hard to earn the presidents trust in this policy area, said former Representative Carlos Curbelo, a fellow Florida Republican. He owns it and it has clearly paid dividends for him, and more importantly for the victims of Maduros tyranny.The senators efforts have put the United States in the middle of a roiling confrontation in Caracas that pits Mr. Maduro and Venezuelan military leaders against a popular uprising led by Juan Guaid, the 35-year-old political activist and industrial engineer who serves as head of the elected National Assembly.After Mr. Pence called to pledge Mr. Trumps support, Mr. Guaid asserted this past week that he is the interim president under Venezuelas Constitution because the election last year that kept Mr. Maduro in office was illegitimate. As Mr. Pence promised, the United States followed through by recognizing Mr. Guaid as the rightful leader, as did about 20 other countries, including Canada, Brazil and Argentina.On Saturday, Germany, France and Spain said they would recognize Mr. Guaid if new elections are not held quickly. At a United Nations Security Council meeting, Alan Duncan, Britains representative, called Mr. Guaid the right man to take Venezuela forward. Mr. Rubio chimed in as well to urge more nations to join the effort.Still, Mr. Rubio is well aware of the gamble the United States has taken by pushing for new leadership in Caracas.In the interview on Friday, he outlined four possible outcomes to the upheaval: Mr. Maduro could hold onto power; he could be forced out in a palace coup but replaced by a civilian leader just as bad; or he could be unseated by a military installing itself as the new government. Or a popular revolt like the one Mr. Guaid is currently leading could force change.The U.S. interest is reflected in only one of those outcomes, Mr. Rubio acknowledged.Mr. Rubios approach has generated unusually bipartisan support, including from leading Democrats like Senators Richard J. Durbin of Illinois and Robert Menendez of New Jersey. But some veteran government officials and analysts expressed concern that the administration has been too ad hoc: It failed to line up support in advance from the Venezuelan military, which may be critical to Mr. Maduros survival. It has given no indication of a clear plan to protect the United States Embassy and its personnel against possible retaliation.And while Mr. Rubio insists there are unspecified contingency options that he will not reveal, analysts say the Trump administration does not seem prepared with a Plan B in case Mr. Maduro defies the pressure and holds onto power.From more liberal members of Congress comes a more philosophical or ideological objection, a concern that the latest intervention in Latin America evokes a sometimes dark history of Washington meddling in the internal affairs of its neighbors.The United States needs to stay out of Venezuela, Representative Tulsi Gabbard, a Hawaii Democrat who is running for president, wrote on Twitter. Let the Venezuelan people determine their future. We dont want other countries to choose our leaders  so we have to stop trying to choose theirs.Representative Ro Khanna, Democrat of California, bemoaned the influence Mr. Rubio has had on the president. As a candidate, Trumps call for greater restraint provided a sharp contrast to Rubios foreign policy, he said by email on Saturday. But on Venezuela, partly given the domestic politics in Florida, he has deferred to Rubio as a point person for nearly two years.Like other Cuban-American leaders in Florida, Mr. Rubio has long stood against Mr. Maduro and his predecessor, Hugo Chvez, whose socialist governments have been aligned with Havana. He has also been a leading voice pressing the administration to take tough measures against China and Russia, traditional allies of Cuba, as well as other human rights violators.Mr. Rubios staunch opposition to Mr. Maduro has so gotten under the skin of the hard-liners in Venezuela that a senior official in Caracas reportedly ordered an assassination attempt against the senator in 2017.Mr. Rubio responded with bravado. After Secretary of State Mike Pompeo imposed sanctions last year on Diosdado Cabello Rondn, the vice president of the ruling United Socialist Party who was said to have ordered the hit, the senator taunted the Venezuelan on Twitter by posting a photograph of prisoners in orange jumpsuits, suggesting he could wind up behind bars.What size uniform do you wear these days extra large or XX-large? Mr. Rubio wrote. Just want to make sure your stay is as comfortable as possible.Mr. Rubio understands that after years of misadventures overseas, many Americans are reluctant to take on yet another foreign dictatorship. Why should it matter to us? he asked on the Senate floor on Thursday. Why should America even be involved in this?He went on to describe the sheer repression and corruption of Mr. Maduros government that has driven his oil-rich country into the depths of economic despair, prompting three million Venezuelans to flee.Mr. Rubios real target, though, has been an audience of one, a man who in the throes of their battle for the Republican nomination in 2016 derided him as Little Marco.He waited less than a month after Mr. Trump took office to begin a persistent effort to draw the presidents attention to Venezuela. In February 2017, Mr. Rubio along with Mr. Pence helped usher Lilian Tintori, a Venezuelan political activist and television star, into the Oval Office to meet Mr. Trump. She told the president about her husband, Leopoldo Lpez, an opposition leader under house arrest.Mr. Trump later tweeted a photo of himself giving a thumbs up next to Ms. Tintori, with Mr. Rubio and Mr. Pence on her other side. In the tweet, the president called on Venezuela to release her husband immediately.The president really responds to the human side of issues, Mr. Rubio said on Friday. If you can humanize it or personalize it, thats important. When he met her and was able to hear her, it made an impression on him.Since then, Mr. Rubio said he has spoken with Mr. Trump about Venezuela at least once a month. Mr. Pence has long seen the issue similarly and the two gained allies with the arrival of Mr. Pompeo and John R. Bolton, the national security adviser.Mr. Rubio also helped place another Cuban-American political figure from Florida, Mauricio Claver-Carone, as senior director for Western Hemisphere affairs at the National Security Council. Once Mauricio went in, the policy went on hyperdrive, Mr. Rubio said. Hes aware of these issues.Still, some involved in the issue said Mr. Rubios sway has been overstated and that, as important as he has been, Mr. Trump needed little persuasion. When Mr. Guaid was briefly arrested and then released this month after first broaching the idea of taking over as interim president, Mr. Pence called the opposition leader to convey the presidents support.Last Tuesday, the day before mass protests against Mr. Maduro, Mr. Trump met with Mr. Pence and Mr. Bolton. The vice president presented a memo with options and encouraged Mr. Trump to formally recognize Mr. Guaid as the countrys leader if he did claim power, according to a White House official. The president agreed.Later that day, Mr. Trump and his team met with Mr. Rubio at the White House along with three other Florida Republicans: Gov. Ron DeSantis, Senator Rick Scott and Representative Mario Diaz-Balart. Mr. Rubio likewise embraced the idea of recognizing Mr. Guaid.Mr. Pence called Mr. Guaid afterward and told him that the United States would support him if he claimed the presidency. The vice president uploaded a video addressing the Venezuelan people and encouraged protesters. The next day, Mr. Guaid asserted his leadership and Mr. Trump backed him.Mr. Rubio speaks in vague terms about his ties with Mr. Guaid. He cannot recall how many times the two men have met; unlike Ms. Tintori, Mr. Guaid has not been a prominent opposition figure who traveled abroad often. A year and a half ago, he wouldnt have been a name you would have heard of, Mr. Rubio said. I dont think this was an ambition of his.Nor was his name high on the list at the State Department. As recently as this month, when aides to Representative Jim Himes, Democrat of Connecticut, spoke with department officials about the agency supporting Mr. Guaid if he claimed the title of interim president, they were met with resistance.We were cautioned by State not to inflame a volatile situation, Mr. Himes said in an interview.Mr. Rubio has also pressed the administration to increase aid to Venezuelans, who have suffered for years from an imploding economy. Mr. Pompeo on Thursday announced $20 million in food and medical aid for Venezuelans.But the real worry in Washington is if the situation in Caracas takes a violent turn. Mr. Rubio has talked with administration officials about options if it does  and speaks with authority as if he were the decider.If Maduro turns violent, whether its against Guaid or the assembly or the people or, God forbid, our embassy, the consequences will be swift and severe, he said. I can tell you for a fact that it wont be a letter of condemnation.At least not if he has anything to say about it.Adam Goldman contributed reporting from Washington, and Megan Specia from New York.Follow Peter Baker and Edward Wong on Twitter: @peterbakernyt and @ewong.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byIn the land of tall tales, this president knows how to win a fight. By Richard ParkerMr. Parker is the author of Lone Star Nation: How Texas Will Transform America.EL PASO, Texas  The battle of the border was an epic desert showdown between two gifted politicians, each marshaling around 10,000 people, one blessed with the truth, the other peddling lies. And yet, to Donald Trumps mystifying credit, the lie survived to fight another day. We tell some tall tales here in Texas. But no Texan is a match for this president.As day broke here in my hometown yesterday, it looked like after years, Mr. Trumps lies about the border had finally run out. Amid his showdown with Democrats over his proposed border wall  which had already led to an unpopular 35-day-long government shutdown  Mr. Trump was coming to El Paso to make his case once again: Build the wall. The people of El Paso, with the local hero and presidential Hamlet Beto ORourke as their public face, had a response: Were safe not because of walls but in spite of walls. Were safe not in spite of immigrants but because of immigrants.Ahead of the presidents visit, normally taciturn local politicians turned on Mr. Trump for falsely claiming in recent weeks that El Paso, the second-largest border city in America, was swamped by an immigrant crime wave until a fence went up. The English-language daily, El Paso Times, proclaimed: Local leaders ready to tell El Pasos story. The Spanish-language daily, El Diario, more startlingly heralded, El Paso, National Battleground. The officially nonpartisan mayor, Dee Margo, laid into Mr. Trump on Twitter, outraged: El Paso was never one of the most dangerous cities in the U.S.As Air Force One approached, winds whipped up to 50 miles per hour as people streamed toward the County Coliseum, formerly a site for livestock shows and rodeos, where Mr. Trump held what amounted to his kickoff rally for the 2020 election. This is not Trump country. After all, hed branded the entire border, where millions of Americans live, a violent wasteland. Business leaders groused that the president had been bad for business, endangering $70 billion in local trade with Mexico while scaring away businesses with tales of immigrant mayhem. The County Commissioners Court is on the record opposing a wall cutting through downtown. El Paso voted nearly 3-to-1 against him in 2016.For a moment, it seemed the president would finally get his comeuppance here  a definitive and undeniable repudiation of his monstrous and unpopular pet project.On the merits, Mr. Trump should lose the battle hands down. The crime rate in El Paso peaked in 1993. Then it fell steadily for years finally settling at about 370 violent crimes per 100,000 people. Lower than a city El Pasos size, like, say, Boston or the national average.Organized by some 50 local groups, the March for Truth gathered at least as many or even more people than Mr. Trumps rally, winding its way to a field directly across from the County Coliseum. Some skewered Mr. Trump, sure; Not today, Satan, read one sign. But most people, like Cathy Benavidez, a retired social worker, came to defend their hometowns reputation. Im just embarrassed by what Trump has said because its not true, Ms. Benavidez said. Her hand-lettered sign said, in glitter, Stop the wall, stop the lies, El Paso has always been safe.Mr. ORourke appeared in shirt sleeves, despite plummeting temperatures, but with his usual upbeat attitude. In a brief interview over the rising voice of a mariachi singer, he said: This is El Paso so I want to take every opportunity to support the cause, the culture and the community.He helped bring out 10,000 supporters, according to local organizers, maybe as many as 15,000. Mr. Trump brought 6,700 to the old rodeo arena, according to the fire department, with a few thousand more stamping their feet in front of the parking lot Jumbotron. The truth  or at least the facts  made steady progress in El Paso.But that didnt stop the lies, like Mr. Trump claiming 35,000 people came to see him while just 200 went to see Mr. ORourke. There is nothing the president wont lie about. He even encouraged followers to chant Finish That Wall, though theres been no construction since he became president on any kind of wall he promised, just fences ordered up since 2006. I tried to count the lies during his speech but had to stop after 10. My Stetson is off: The guy is a gifted and gratuitously generous liar.Thanks to a powerful border wall in El Paso, Texas, it is one of the safest cities, he insisted even after the uproar. And the crowd roared. Of course, I had parked my car by the 18-foot bollard border fence a block away; there was no wall, just like there were no 10,000 MAGA fans milling around outside.But the truth is plodding, getting its pants on, one leg at a time, while a lie races halfway around the world, as the old saw attributed to Mark Twain goes. Mr. Trumps tales of kidnappings and mayhem, too, are far more racy than the truth. El Paso has problems. The international bridges carry tens of millions of people, cars, trucks and rail cars each year; theyre not getting inspected. But that is tedious. I grew up here and El Paso does have a crisis: too much poverty and too little education. But that is boring.Mr. Trumps lies are dime novel, pulp fiction, heart-pounding, mesmerizing and thats where they derive their power. Regardless, word came that evening that congressional negotiators would give Mr. Trump about $1 billion for more steel barriers, which he will call a wall and then declare victory. It will be anything but that.The presidents biggest cheerleader, Lindsey Graham, is absolutely right when he says the wall has become a metaphor. And Henri Rafael, a Trump fan I met at the rally, is absolutely right, too: A border wall is very much needed. But its not about the wall anymore. His friend in a pink MAGA hat, Monica DeMoss, chimed in: These people need to go out and work.The wall is about whatever you want it to be about: welfare, immigrants, race, class, socialism, you name it. It will never be an actual, 30-foot wall from sea to shining sea, as Mr. Trump once promised. He is, in fact, losing on the merits, bit by bit. But he will still get his monument: a metaphor that just as effectively divides the nation, even if a real wall never divides the border here, in El Paso.Ill hand it to the guy: No Texan could tell a taller tale.Richard Parker is the author of Lone Star Nation: How Texas Will Transform America.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.A previous version of this article misidentified the largest border city in the United States. It is San Diego, not El Paso.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy J. David Goodman[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]Where the hell is HUD and money?Stanley Brezenoff, a career public servant in New York City since the 1970s, was deeply frustrated.On Jan. 31, Mayor Bill de Blasio and Ben Carson, the secretary of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, struck a deal that subjected the New York City Housing Authority to federal oversight without any commitment of new federal funding.I think that it is not a good agreement for Nycha and for the city, Mr. Brezenoff, the outgoing Nycha chairman, said in an interview.Mr. Brezenoff, an ally of Mr. de Blasio who was hailed in April by the mayor as one of the great public servants in the last generation, said he believed the deal was unfair.It was bad for New Yorkers, he said, especially for the more than 400,000 who are living in dilapidated public housing riddled with problems, from leaks to heating issues and vermin. It let the federal government off the hook.Im a city guy. If I care about anything in my professional life, its the well-being of New York City, Mr. Brezenoff said. Honestly, thats the prism I was looking at it from. Starting from: Where the hell is HUD and money?After decades of reducing funds for Nycha, the federal government was now blaming mismanagement by New York City for the resulting deterioration of Nycha properties, and taking no financial responsibility.Mr. Brezenoff refused to sign the paperwork.The city and Nycha have all the responsibility, limited authority and all of the financial burden, he said. That in a nutshell is why Im against it.But Eric F. Phillips, the mayors press secretary, said the threat of federal receivership was very real, and it was not the time for brinkmanship.While the mayor respects Stans opinion and thanks him for his unrivaled legacy of public service, you dont gamble or play a game of chicken when its your job to prevent Donald Trump from becoming the landlord of 400,000 public housing residents, Mr. Phillips said.A HUD spokesman did not respond to a message seeking comment.The agreement stops short of a full federal takeover of the citys housing authority, something Mr. de Blasio opposed. In the announcement with Mr. Carson, Mr. de Blasio called it a strong path forward and a very tangible path forward.It includes the appointment of a powerful federal monitor  paid for by New York City  and a commitment from the city to spend an additional $2.2 billion over 10 years on repairs for its crumbling system of 175,000 public housing apartments. It also gives some authority to the federal housing secretary that is similar to a federal receiver, such as the ability to abrogate city contracts and go around Civil Service requirements.This is a receiver in everything but name, Mr. Brezenoff said.Because he refused to sign the deal, the general manager of Nycha, Vito Mustaciuolo, did so in his place. On Tuesday, City Hall announced that Mr. Brezenoff would be replaced as interim chairman of Nycha by the middle of the month. The citys sanitation commissioner, Kathryn Garcia, was appointed to take over temporarily as officials hunt for a permanent leader.When Mr. de Blasio named Mr. Brezenoff to lead the troubled public housing authority in April, he did so amid scandal over its failure to properly inspect for lead, and in the middle of a sprawling federal investigation.Mr. Brezenoff, who by that point had already become the go-to Mr. Fix-It for Mr. de Blasio, took over weeks before the city and the authority moved to settle a case brought by the United States attorney, Geoffrey S. Berman, over dangerous conditions and endemic mismanagement at the authority.Mr. Brezenoff, 81, said that he had felt some hope late last year after a federal judge rejected the terms of the initial deal between Mr. de Blasio and the United States attorneys office. The judge, William H. Pauley III, strongly suggested that the federal government should take over New York City public housing, even as he chastised federal officials for abdicating their legal responsibility to the residents of the nations largest public housing system.A big part of what he said was that the resources are not there, he said of the judges ruling. I believe he was right.Mr. Brezenoff did not like the settlement but signed on because, he said, he had only recently arrived. When, several months later, he was presented with essentially the same deal  but one that gave even more powers to HUD  he said no.How is it possible for there to be this moralizing from the U.S. Attorney, as if Nycha was a creature unto itself, not dependent on federal resources? he said.Experts on public housing have also placed the blame for Nychas troubles on a lack of federal investment. Nicholas Dagen Bloom, a professor at the New York Institute of Technology who studies the Housing Authority, said the agreement  and the performance goals it sets out for Nycha  could only be met with more money from Washington.To reach these goals in all of the categories they set, youd have to start fixing everything everywhere, now. And that money is not there, Professor Bloom said. If Congress doesnt appropriate, youre dealing with Whac-a-Mole.Mr. Brezenoff said that after the rejection of the settlement, he argued for the Housing Authority to come up with its own plan. He wanted to resist pressure from Mr. Carson, who late last year threatened to declare the authority in substantial default, which could lead to a takeover.The federal government, Mr. Brezenoff said in the interview, bears a lot of the responsibility and therefore should bear a good deal  in my view, all  of the financial burden.Call their bluff, said Mr. Brezenoff  a longtime poker player  speaking of the federal government. You say: You do it, he added, and without additional money from the city.Mr. Brezenoff acknowledged that the decision was not his to make. He said that Mr. de Blasio believes passionately that there should be no federal takeover of any city responsibility.The mayor makes those calls, not me. Im a soldier in that sense, he said. But I get to choose whether I stay or not.So I was ready to go.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Thomas Gibbons-NeffKODIAK, Alaska  The morning after more than 40,000 Coast Guard members missed their first paycheck, and the federal governments shutdown stretched into its fourth week, Eleanor King placed an empty jar next to her diners cash register.In scribbled black marker, a sign on the jar, written in all capital letters, read: Donation Coast Guard. By 9 a.m. on Wednesday, nearly an hour before a rainy winter sunrise, the jar held $120  money with which patrons were effectively buying meals for members of the maritime force.While the shutdown has affected hundreds of thousands of federal workers across the United States, halting paychecks and furloughing those who have been deemed nonessential personnel, it has brought a particular chill to Kodiak, a small town of 6,300 on an isolated island in the Gulf of Alaska.Roughly a quarter of the islands population is either an employee or dependent family member of the Coast Guard, which has now had to scale back some of its operations in one of the worlds most dangerous waterways.A high cost of living is common to communities in the Alaskan wilderness, but the Coast Guard contingent in Kodiak makes the town especially vulnerable to the drought in federal cash. Local businesses like Ms. Kings diner are losing money daily even while trying to help.Kodiaks predicament is a result of President Trumps political fight with Congress over $5.7 billion in funding for a border wall, forcing the government to shut down and leaving a series of agency budget bills unfinished. That included funding for the Department of Homeland Security, the parent agency of the Coast Guard.This impacts everyone, Ms. King said. Like some of the other businesses in Kodiak, her diner is giving a 10 percent discount to Coast Guard members; the donations from her jar help pay for meals.The Coast Guard is the only branch of the military that is part of an otherwise completely civilian agency. It was created to enforce maritime laws and conduct rescue operations at sea, but it can be ordered to protect the United States from foreign threats during war or conflicts.That the Coast Guard is going without pay during the shutdown is the first time in our nations history that service members in a U.S. armed force have not been paid during a lapse in government appropriations, Adm. Karl L. Schultz, the Coast Guard commandant, said in a statement on Tuesday. If the shutdown continues, Coast Guard retirees will also not be paid at the end of the month.Jed A. Bergstrom, who runs a food bank at a Baptist mission community center in Kodiak, said a Coast Guard family showed up at his door the day after service members were supposed to be paid.Residents are donating fish and game from their freezers to their neighbors. Big Als Take and Bake, another restaurant in the area, sent more than 30 pizzas to a food bank on the Coast Guard base. They quickly disappeared.Alexandras Salon, a hair styling shop, is giving i.o.u.s to clients instead of making them pay, and the Alutiiq museum, focused on the communitys native heritage, has waived its $7 entry free.But eventually, said Mayor Patricia B. Branson, if the government does not reopen soon, the business owners and landlords will have to find a way to get paid.I think its important that the people in the faraway land D.C. understand whats going on in a small town, she said. And how people are affected by all this nonsense.Legislation that was introduced earlier this month by a bipartisan group of lawmakers, known as the Pay Our Coast Guard Act, has gained support in Congress in recent days. But its fate, at least in the short term, remains unclear.Other organizations have raised funds to help Coast Guard families, including a $15 million donation from the USAA financial services company.Flush with greenery and emerald water in the summer, while cold and wet in the winter, Kodiak is economically supported by the Coast Guard base, one of the largest in the United States. The town is also dependent on its fishing port, which often oscillates between being the second- and third-most prosperous in the country.The fishing industry off Alaskas coast rakes in more than $4 billion annually, according to the National Marine Fisheries Service. But with most of that service also closed, Kodiaks primary economic driver might soon be in jeopardy.For now, though, little has changed. The fishing season for pollock opened this week in the northern Pacific, and the Coast Guard moved a MH-60 Jayhawk helicopter and its Kodiak-based crew hundreds of miles to a small base in the Aleutian Islands to help, if need be, with search-and-rescue missions.Still, the Coast Guard has had to stop some of its law enforcement missions in the Bering Sea and Gulf of Alaska. Some routine patrols have been halted, as has the practice, in at least some cases, of boarding fishing boats to ensure that crews are following maritime laws.Generally, activities have been scaled back if it doesnt support life and property or the protection of national security, said Lt. Brian Dykens, a Coast Guard spokesman.Besides search and rescue, and unlike air stations in the mainland United States, the Coast Guard missions in Alaska often include medically evacuating people from remote areas  as aircrews have done at least seven times since the shutdown began.In the winter, the Bering Sea is known for its hurricanelike weather and 50-foot waves. It has claimed the lives of dozens of fishermen in recent years.Salt water, battering winds and constant strain ensure that Coast Guard aircraft need constant maintenance. The flights that are based in Kodiak are responsible for covering four million square miles of coastline and ocean.But with hundreds of civilians on furlough, a backlog of repair requests are quickly accruing at the Coast Guards primary maintenance hub in North Carolina. Already, active-duty Coast Guard mechanics are filling in for their furloughed civilian colleagues at the Kodiak Air Station.If it drags on, the ability of the force to initiate the most rudimentary search-and-rescue missions are at risk of being hampered, said one Coast Guard official who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss the effects of the shutdown. Some of the smaller Coast Guard air stations across the country could close.Lt. Cmdr. Zachary Koehler is among the Coast Guard helicopter pilots in Kodiak who are currently not being paid as they undertake missions over the volatile Bering Sea. He and his wife, Beth, have a son and daughter, both 11, and run Grand Slam, a toy store the family opened in 2017. The store has lost 30 percent in sales this month compared to last January.In the first couple days, I think everyone thought this wasnt going to continue, Ms. Koehler said. So they kept spending like they usually do. And after that first weekend, it was amazing  it just stopped.It hurts, said Aimee Williams, who spent 12 years in the Coast Guard and is married to a C-130 pilot who is still in the service. And its just going to keep getting worse here until its fixed.John Ismay contributed reporting from Washington.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie Haberman and Annie KarniWASHINGTON  In the waning days of the 2016 presidential campaign, Donald J. Trump turned his focus to the F.B.I. investigation into Hillary Clintons use of a private email server when she was secretary of state, suggesting it was bigger than Watergate.Her criminal action was willful, deliberate, intentional and purposeful, he said at a rally in Phoenix. Hillary set up an illegal server for the obvious purpose of shielding her criminal conduct from public disclosure and exposure, knowing full well that her actions put our national security at risk.Democrats now charge that Mr. Trumps eldest daughter and her husband, who both serve as aides to the president, did the same things he pilloried Mrs. Clinton for doing.The basis for their accusations was the letter Rep. Elijah E. Cummings, chairman of the House Oversight and Reform Committee, sent on Thursday to Pat Cipollone, the White House counsel, saying that Jared Kushner, the presidents son-in-law and senior adviser, has used WhatsApp, an unofficial encrypted messaging service, to communicate with foreign contacts about official White House business.Mr. Cummings also said that Ivanka Trump, the presidents eldest daughter, did not preserve some emails that were sent to her private account, as she claimed in the past, contradicting her own previous claims and possibly violating federal records laws.It is not the first time that questions have been raised about how Ms. Trump and Mr. Kushner have used private communications in their government roles. Both have used personal email accounts to communicate with other White House officials and cabinet secretaries about official business. But the irony of the new accusations was savored by Mrs. Clintons former aides.For his endless faults, Jared should at least know what chutzpah means, said Philippe Reines, a top adviser to Mrs. Clinton, referring to the Yiddish word meaning gall.And while theres no specific Yiddish word for continuing the practice even after the Democrats took control of the House, mashugana fits, Mr. Reines said, referring to the word meaning crazy.Mr. Cummings based his findings about Ms. Trump and Mr. Kushner on what the committee had been told by the couples lawyer, Abbe Lowell. But Mr. Lowell insisted in a letter to the committee that Mr. Cummings was twisting his statements and that he had not said what had been claimed.A spokeswoman for the committee said that it was confident in the facts described and that if Mr. Lowell would like to produce any documents to aid in our investigation, then the committee is open to receiving that information.Republican members of the House Oversight Committee who attended the meeting with Mr. Lowell said in an internal memo late Friday that Mr. Cummingss letter falsely maligned Ms. Trump and Mr. Kushner. They said he had misconstrued and mischaracterized what Mr. Lowell said. In their recollections, they said, Mr. Lowell described the government-related emails as minimal, said they were all preserved and said that no classified material had been sent.And they rejected comparisons to Mrs. Clinton, saying she set up her private server specifically to evade records requests.Ms. Trump and Mr. Kushner in the past have insisted that there was no equivalency between Mrs. Clintons use of a private email server, while she served as secretary of state, and their use of private email accounts to conduct some of their government affairs.Everythings been preserved, everythings been archived, there just is no equivalency between the two things, Ms. Trump said in an interview with Good Morning America last year, after initial reports that she had used a personal email account for government work.But Mr. Cummingss letter suggested that there was reason to believe that was not the case.The disclosures about Mr. Kushners and Ms. Trumps methods of communication raise questions not just about whether they violated the federal law in not preserving their communications but whether they shared classified information on their nongovernment accounts  the same kinds of charges that Mr. Trump thought disqualified his 2016 opponent and were enough to put her in jail.The more serious issue may be not so much that there has been a violation of the Presidential Records Act, but the reason for a decision to circumvent it, said Robert F. Bauer, who served as White House counsel for former President Barack Obama. That is the red flag.A White House official insisted that Mr. Kushner and Ms. Trump had never improperly handled classified material.In the past, Ms. Trump and Mr. Kushner have claimed that they were not familiar with the rules that applied to them. Yet current and former White House officials familiar with the guidance that all aides there are given have said the two were given ample warning. That includes warnings about using chat apps, which are supposed to be prohibited for government business.The couple has continued to balk at the notion that there are similarities in their circumstances with Mrs. Clintons. There are some differences, but there are also a lot of equivalencies, according to lawyer familiar with federal record keeping.Mrs. Clintons case occurred under the Federal Records Act and regulations promulgated by the State Department. Mr. Kushner and Ms. Trumps case, in contrast, concerns the Presidential Records Act, which was passed in 1978 after the Watergate scandal and declares that all presidential records are public property. The most important thing it did, according to attorneys, was prohibit the destruction of records that are described as private.Mr. Lowell said at the time that he did not know if Mr. Kushner had communicated classified information on the messaging service, WhatsApp, telling lawmakers that was above my pay grade. He argued that Mr. Kushner took screenshots of the communications and sent them to his official White House account or the National Security Council and had therefore not violated federal records laws.But Mrs. Clintons former aides said they were not willing to give Mr. Kushner, in particular, the benefit of the doubt.WhatsApp has two main uses: youre trying to save on international data charges or youre trying to hide your communications and circumvent the law, said Nick Merrill, a spokesman for Mrs. Clinton. I think its pretty clear which of these appeals to Jared Kushner.Brian Fallon, who served as Mrs. Clintons press secretary during the 2016 campaign, said he thought Kushner is not above lying to his own lawyers for the purposes of navigating a tricky PR situation. The idea he faithfully took screenshots is probably bogus.Mr. Fallon, who also served as a Justice Department spokesman in the Obama administration, said that Congress could ask Facebook for proof that Mr. Kushner took screenshots of his messages, and that the White House could also investigate whether those screen grabs exist on its servers.This is not something the country should have to take Jared Kushner and his lawyers words for, he said.The former Clinton aides also cited Mr. Kushners omission of dozens of meetings with foreign leaders, including Russian contacts, on the forms required to gain a top-secret security clearance, an omission his lawyer at the time called a clerical error. And Mr. Lowell, in a statement, implied that someone in the White House misled him when he claimed that Mr. Trump did not intervene to grant him his clearance, although he did not specify who.An earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to the timing of an appearance Ivanka Trump made on Good Morning America. The appearance came shortly after reports that Ms. Trump had used a personal email account for government work, not unrelated reports that Hillary Clinton had.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Glenn Thrush and Thomas Gibbons-NeffWASHINGTON  President Trump raised the possibility on Friday of declaring a national emergency to allow him to build a wall along the southwest border without congressional approval, hours after Department of Homeland Security officials requested additional support to erect temporary barriers between the United States and Mexico.Mr. Trumps comments followed a contentious meeting with Democratic leaders at the White House. It failed to produce a deal to end the two-week partial shutdown of the federal government, a funding lapse that began with the presidents insistence that Congress allocate $5.6 billion for the wall.We can call a national emergency and build it very quickly, Mr. Trump told reporters in the Rose Garden when asked about an emergency declaration.Asked if his claim was intended to scare Democrats into making a deal, he replied, I never make threats.[President Trump took the public stage this week clearly intent on framing the conflict on his own terms.]Under the National Emergencies Act of 1976, presidents are allowed to take unilateral action in times of crisis, provided they notify Congress, specify the circumstances that necessitated the declaration and document all uses of executive authority that are covered by the emergency.Officials at the Homeland Security, Justice and Defense Departments have researched the issue for Mr. Trump. However, no emergency order has been drafted or approved, one official with knowledge of those plans said.The Homeland Security Department submitted an official request for assistance from the Pentagon on Friday, a Defense Department official said. But the military has yet to determine what resources are needed and if any additional troops are required for the mission, the official said.The moves come as the president finds himself trapped between a central campaign promise to build a wall and rising anxiety among Republicans over political damage inflicted by a shutdown that Mr. Trump has defiantly owned.Speaker Nancy Pelosi has ruled out paying for a border wall, even at a much lower funding level, despite suggestions by Mr. Trump that the government shutdown could last months or even years.Administration officials have been scrambling to tackle the legal and logistical problems involved with steering previously allocated funding toward any project that can be described as a wall, a fence or a barrier.The definition of a wall has grown ever more elastic.The White House and homeland security officials have been pushing the Pentagon to continue to use military troops at the border  mainly to install, extend and repair a section of concertina wire used to stop immigrants from entering unmanned sections of the southwest border.Mr. Trump tweeted last month that the Military will build the remaining sections of the Wall  a reference to several hundred miles of fencing along the border.The temporary troop deployments are just one of many recommendations that the homeland security secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, and her staff have made to the Pentagon.One possible solution, in the absence of new congressional allocations, is figuring out a way to steer contracts already planned for Army Corps of Engineers projects toward some kind of barriers. But lawyers at the Homeland Security and Justice Departments have yet to determine if doing so could withstand court challenges, two senior administration officials said.Mr. Trump spent the holidays at the White House to demonstrate his determination to secure new border funding. Yet he has struggled to dramatize his cause, as stories of federal employees and other Americans suffering from the effects of the shutdown pile up.On Thursday, homeland security officials abruptly canceled a scheduled press briefing by Kevin K. McAleenan, the commissioner of United States Customs and Border Protection, when Mr. Trump decided that he wanted to appear in front of the cameras himself. He did so, in the White House briefing room, with Border Patrol and other immigration enforcement employees who had been meeting with him in the Oval Office.It was completely off the cuff, Art Del Cueto, a Border Patrol agent in the room with Mr. Trump, said shortly after leaving the White House. I dont know who in the room  it may have been him  that was like, We should go out there and do a presser. So we did.Mr. Del Cueto and other members of the Border Patrols labor union have met with Mr. Trump several times in his presidency  so frequently, they said, that they could not remember the number of times they had been to the Oval Office.Separately, on Friday, Mr. Trump in a tweet denied as FAKE NEWS a New York Times article reporting that he was considering nominating former Senator Jim Webb, Democrat of Virginia, as his next defense secretary. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis resigned last month to protest Mr. Trumps decision to withdraw troops from Syria.Mitchell Ferman contributed reporting from McAllen, Tex., and Maggie Haberman from New York.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Rick GladstoneThe mystery over the incarceration of a Navy veteran in Iran last July deepened on Friday, when an Iranian prosecutor said that the case had been based on an individual plaintiff and that the prisoner might face security-related charges.The veteran, Michael R. White of Imperial Beach, Calif., is the first American to be imprisoned in Iran since the Trump administration took office two years ago.His arrest raised the number of American prisoners in Iran to at least four, and has added an irritant to the already poor relations between the countries.The prosecutor, Gholamali Sadeqi, in the northeast Iranian city of Mashhad, was quoted in a brief report by Irans Mehr news agency as saying there is an individual plaintiff in the case, but he did not provide details.The Persian-language Mehr report, as translated by the BBC, also quoted the prosecutor as saying that Mr. White was under investigation on other unspecified security charges and that he remained imprisoned in Mashhad, where he was taken into custody six months ago.Mr. White, who just turned 47, is a 13-year Navy veteran who had a girlfriend in Iran and had visited the country several times to see her, according to his mother, Joanne White.Archived photographs from Mr. Whites discontinued Instagram account show him and a dark-haired woman in a head scarf. The identity of the woman and other details about her remain unclear.News of Mr. Whites arrest first emerged on Jan. 7, when his mother confirmed it in a telephone interview with The New York Times. She said officials at the State Department had informed her that he was imprisoned and that they were working to ensure he was seen by diplomats from Switzerland, which looks after American interests in Iran.A spokesman for the White family, Jonathan Franks, said Friday that there had been no communication with Mr. White in Iran and it remained unclear if he had been seen by the Swiss.But Mr. Franks also said that Mr. Whites mother had spoken with Iranians who had identified themselves as Mr. Whites former cellmates, and that she now worried about the health of her son, a former cancer patient.Mrs. White, on the basis of firsthand evidence provided to her by Iranian nationals who were incarcerated with Michael, believes his life-threatening cancer has recurred, the spokesman said in a statement. She respectfully calls on the regime to release him immediately so he may get the care he needs.Mr. Whites incarceration came against the backdrop of a sharp escalation in pressure on Iran by Mr. Trump, who has abandoned the Iranian nuclear agreement, reimposed severe sanctions and vowed to choke off most Iranian oil exports, the countrys main source of income.The White familys spokesman said any suggestion that Mr. White might have engaged in espionage or sedition in Iran was false.Michael enjoyed his many visits to Iran to visit his girlfriend and has great respect for the Iranian people, he said. To be clear, Michael is not now, nor has he ever been a spy and we reject the notion he committed some sort of crime against the state.There has been no indication from Iran that any of the other Americans known to be imprisoned there will be released anytime soon.On Thursday, Jared Genser, an American lawyer in Washington for two of the prisoners, Baquer and Siamak Namazi, said Irans Supreme Court had recently rejected the appeals of their 10-year prison sentences on charges of having collaborated with the United States.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byCanada LetterBy Ian AustenWe continued following the political turmoil in Ottawa  this week. But we also held a special event for subscribers on another matter of national importance: Canadas relationship with China.Nearly 250 readers dialed in to a conference call whose host was Deborah Solomon, our economics editor in Washington. On the line was Dan Bilefsky, my colleague in Montreal; Chris Buckley, a Beijing correspondent; Katie Benner, who covers the United States Justice Department in Washington; and Raymond Zhong, a technology reporter also based in Beijing.They discussed the arrest of Meng Wanzhou, the chief financial officer of the Chinese electronics giant Huawei, who is under house arrest in Vancouver awaiting an extradition hearing that may see her sent to the United States to face fraud charges. They also talked about Chinas arrest on spying charges of the Canadians Michael Kovrig and Michael Spavor.And, of course, Canada-China relations in general came up.For those of you who missed it, here are some of the highlights of the conversation. They have been edited for conciseness and clarity:What are the next steps for the two Canadians being held in China?Raymond: Well the courts are controlled by the Communist Party. So the outcome for them in terms of the legal processes is going to depend quite heavily on the political situation. Whatever happens with Ms. Meng, it seems pretty likely to affect their outcome.What does the United States contend that Ms. Meng and Huawei have done?Katie: What is being alleged is that Huawei used one of its subsidiaries to secretly do business with Iran, which is subject to very stringent American sanctions.The government is alleging that Ms. Meng and others at the company basically hid the fact that money would be moving in and out of Iran and inveigled a lot of banks to do business with them in violation of sanctions.Those are extremely serious allegations.The question, though, is whether the United States government can convince the rest of the world, not only that Huawei evaded the sanctions, but also about a broader argument hat Huawei is too closely aligned with the Chinese government and that nobody should use its equipment. Theyre holding the case with Meng up as a prime example of why the company cant be trusted.Is Huawei connected or controlled by the Chinese government?Raymond: Huawei maintains it operates independently from the government. But the bigger backdrop here really is that China is not a country in which private companies can operate independently from the government. Thats true in informal ways.The operating environment in China is one in which companies have to listen to the government.In the middle of all this, President Trump has suggested that hes trying to win a trade deal with China, and that the case against Huawei and Ms. Meng could potentially be dropped if it works in Americas interests. How is this complicating Canadas willingness to extradite her?Dan:In terms of the legal questions regarding the extradition, that process is really a matter for the courts. Its not a political matter.Now one of the arguments of Ms. Mengs defense lawyers is that by making these comments, Mr. Trump has politicized the case and therefore the extradition should not proceed.But its quite rare for Canada to refuse extradition requests from the United States.How has this affected trade between Canada and China?Raymond: China imports certain things quite heavily from Canada, including canola oil. And last month there were reports that shipments of canola oil had been delayed or held up significantly at Chinese ports.The official Chinese line is that pests had been discovered in the shipments. But almost everybody sees it as another swipe at Canada in connection to the Huawei situation.But the trading relationship and the relationship between the people in the two countries seems to be quite vibrant. Theres a new Canada Goose flagship store that opened in Beijing not far from The New York Times bureau. And I can report that people seem to be pretty happy to keep buying Canada Goose.Is China pushing Canada around because the Chinese leadership considers the Canadian government weak? I suspect China would be dealing with the United States in a qualitatively different manner.Chris: And if Canada is feeling pressure from China then theyre joining a queue of other middleweight countries that have also had similar tensions recently.I think China does have a sort of a very realistic view of the world in which the United States is seen as too big to take on in the same way as, say, Canada or other countries of similar size.After nearly two months of political turmoil, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau is trying to get Canadians to talk about something, anything else. His effort was not off to a wholly successful start.In Food, Sara Bonisteel took a look at Nanaimo bars. And, no, she didnt use it as an opportunity to repeat the hoary old, and unflattering to their namesake community, joke about whats in them.Edith Iglauer first came to Canada to tell readers of The New Yorker about the country. She ended up becoming part of the nations literary fabric.Beehives in Vancouver are doing double duty as pollution detectors.In a dramatic break from the past, Canada is publicly airing doubts about how the United States declares airplanes fit for flight.Somehow we must stop this carnage on our highways, a judge in Saskatchewan said as she sentenced the truck driver whose inattention led to the crash of the Humboldt Broncos team bus killing 16 people and injuring 13 others.Hes only 17 years old and hes not eligible for the N.H.L. draft until next year but Alexis Lafrenire is already being equated with one of hockeys giants.There was a time when safety features in cars, including seatbelts, were options. Thats still the case with Boeing 737 Max planes and the airlines that owned the two involved in recent fatal crashes. Bruce Pollin wandered around Prospect Park in Brooklyn with 100 pounds of photographic gear, including a camera that makes 8 by 10 inch negatives. The result is a series of remarkable, idyllic portraits.A native of Windsor, Ontario, Ian Austen was educated in Toronto, lives in Ottawa and has reported about Canada for The New York Times for the past 15 years. Follow him on Twitter at @ianrausten.Wed love your feedback on this newsletter. Please email your thoughts and suggestions to nytcanada@nytimes.com. And if you havent done so, please subscribe to the email newsletter version.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byTalkInterview by Dan AmiraYou were recently elected chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, the fifth-ranking position in the party leadership. At 48, youre basically a teenager in Democrat world, because some of the top House Democrats are close to 80. Will you be giving them advice on young-people stuff? Well, Nancy Pelosi, Steny Hoyer and Jim Clyburn are extremely hip in their own right, so I dont believe they need any advice from me.In 2012, The Washington Post asked if you were Brooklyns Barack Obama. Its a comparison youve heard a lot by now. How similar are you guys really? My mother has done a tremendous job of circulating talking points throughout the country. There is and will only ever be one Barack Obama, who was a phenomenal president. The only thing that I can definitively say we have in common is that we were both born on Aug. 4.Many people are already speculating that youll be a future speaker of the House. Is that kind of talk distracting? Its not something that I really pay close attention to. During my time in public service, its become clear that you have to do the job that you currently have, do that job well and not get distracted. The rest tends to take care of itself.You represent Brooklyn, which has some of the fastest-gentrifying neighborhoods in the country. You also grew up there. When you see something like, say, an artisanal mayo shop opening in your neighborhood, how does that make you feel? What shocked me the most, to tell you the truth, was the moment a few years ago when I saw someone walking down Franklin Avenue carrying a surfboard in his hand, apparently on his way to the A train so he can go surf out on Rockaway Beach. Growing up in Crown Heights, it was not uncommon to hear gunshots going off every single day of the week during the height of the crack-cocaine epidemic. Those days are gone, and its a much better place to be able to raise my sons, in the context of safety. Still, I would have never thought that I would have seen someone who looked like they were from Malibu walking on Franklin Avenue with a surfboard, without a care in the world.The Democrats are gearing up to unleash a number of investigations into the Trump administration. Youve warned that the Democrats shouldnt be overly aggressive in their oversight responsibilities. What would being overly aggressive look like? In my view, we have to remain focused on kitchen- table pocketbook issues that led us into the majority. If we were to go down the road of subpoenas flying out of the House of Representatives every other day over the next two years, that would be an example of overreaching in a fashion that could jeopardize our majority. We do have a constitutional responsibility to serve as a check and balance on an out-of-control executive branch. However, we must do it in a way that is not overzealous.Based solely on what we know publicly now, do you think President Trump has committed impeachable offenses as president? The Mueller investigation has not been completed. I think we should all take a deep breath and allow Bob Mueller to be Bob Mueller and continue with his investigation.And what if hes not allowed to complete that work? How confident are you that your Republican colleagues would do something about it? In the event that Trump provoked a constitutional crisis by terminating the Mueller investigation or suppressing its findings, certainly its my hope that my colleagues in the Senate would not conduct themselves as if they were members of a Trump-like cult but would function as a separate and coequal branch of government and push back hard against that type of overreach. But thats a hypothetical, which I choose not to contemplate at this moment because it would really test the constitutional fabric of our democratic republic.Advertisement"
Paul Manaforts Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dads Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: Coal Mining Isnt Coming BackHouse Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab SpringCan The President Be Impeached? We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season
"Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina suggested President Trump temporarily reopen the government, continue negotiations and declare a national emergency if no border deal emerges."
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Ana Swanson and Alan RappeportWASHINGTON  President Trump delayed his own deadline to increase tariffs on Chinese goods on Sunday as his administration continues a monthslong effort to persuade Beijing to make significant structural changes to its economy that have so far proved elusive.Mr. Trump, in a tweet on Sunday, said he would delay a Friday deadline to increase tariffs on $200 billion in Chinese imports, citing substantial progress during a week of trade talks in Washington between American and Chinese officials.The president, who has been eager to cut a deal with Beijing, said the negotiators had forged a compromise on key issues, including Chinas requirement that American companies hand over valuable intellectual property and technology as a condition of doing business in China, as well as more purchases of American agriculture and energy products, like liquid natural gas.But in a hint of how fluid the talks remain, the two sides did not sign an official agreement and the White House did not release details on any agreements. Mr. Trump said he hoped to sign a final deal in person in a meeting with President Xi Jinping of China, most likely in March at Mar-a-Lago, the presidents Palm Beach resort, but no new deadline was set.As a result of these very productive talks, I will be delaying the U.S. increase in tariffs now scheduled for March 1, Mr. Trump wrote. Assuming both sides make additional progress, we will be planning a Summit for President Xi and myself, at Mar-a-Lago, to conclude an agreement. A very good weekend for U.S. & China!The extension will prevent the United States from increasing tariffs on $200 billion of Chinese exports to 25 percent from 10 percent on March 2. The delay, which Mr. Trump had dangled as a possibility in recent weeks, is likely to calm volatile financial markets and reassure business owners who depend on China both for components and as a market for finished goods. Investors in China cheered the news, sending its stock market up more than 5 percent.Despite the progress touted by Mr. Trump, the Chinese have still yet to make written commitments to any of the core issues that the president mentioned in his tweet, according to a person familiar with the negotiations.After a long weekend of talks, this person said, the Chinese delegation returned to the Chinese embassy in Washington and, over secure communications, received permission from Beijing to make a commitment in principle to satisfy the American negotiators and Mr. Trump.An American delegation is expected to travel to Beijing sometime between now and Mr. Xis trip to Mar-a-Lago to continue to work out the remaining differences. The fact that Mr. Xi has agreed to come to Mar-a-Lago is viewed by the Chinese as a concession, as they originally hoped that such a meeting would take place on Chinas Hainan island. But the location also represents a gamble by Mr. Trump, who could be faced with an awkward situation if Mr. Xi refuses to make final concessions while he is a guest at his resort.Mr. Trump continued to tease the prospect of a potential deal with China on Sunday evening, saying if all works well, were going to have some very big news over the next week or two.The president said tariffs on Chinese goods had helped propel the United States beyond China, saying as long as Im president, theyre not going to catch us.While some analysts said Mr. Trumps advisers appeared likely to secure greater concessions than past administrations have achieved, others remain skeptical that United States can significantly transform the economic relationship with China.The presidents announcement followed days of negotiations in which American and Chinese officials met in board rooms near the White House to work line-by-line through a handful of documents covering intellectual property, services and subsidies. The Chinese were ready to commit to billions of dollars of purchases of American soybeans, beef, natural gas and other products, though they have resisted more structural changes to their economy.Mr. Trump has long criticized China for undercutting American workers, and his advisers have tried to pressure the country into making firm commitments to protect American intellectual property, give foreign companies equal access to Chinese markets and reduce subsidies to state-owned firms. But some of these goals run counter to Chinas own ambitions of cementing the Communist Partys control over the economy and the economic dominance of its state-owned firms.One component of this weeks agreement was a pledge by China not to artificially weaken the value of its heavily managed currency, according to people with knowledge of the negotiations. A weaker currency would make Chinese products cheaper abroad and lessen the impact of American tariffs. Under the agreement reached this week, the Chinese must notify the United States when and why they are intervening in their currency. If they violate the agreement, the Trump administration would ratchet up tariffs on Chinese goods, according to one person with knowledge of the negotiations.Brad Setser, a senior fellow for international economics at the Council on Foreign Relations, said the currency commitment made sense in light of the Trump administrations goal of lowering the gap between what the United States sells to China and what it imports. That so-called trade deficit in goods totaled $382 billion in 2018.I dont see how you can credibly try to bring the bilateral deficit down if China doesnt make a commitment to resist further depreciation, Mr. Setser said. A weaker yuan encourages U.S. firms to import more from China, it makes U.S. exports in China more expensive, and this would work against the administrations goal of a more balanced trading relationship.The two sides do not appear to have agreed to a mechanism that would enforce any deal, but American negotiators have favored requiring tariffs on Chinese goods to snap back if Beijing does not make good on the agreement.My guess is that the Trump administration prefers the simplest, most unilateral approach that makes it easy for them to be judge and jury, Scott Kennedy, a China scholar at the Center for Strategic and International Relations, said of the enforcement mechanism.The tariffs against China are just one front in a global trade war that the president has initiated since coming into office. In a series of trade actions last year, the Trump administration levied tariffs on roughly 13 percent of total American imports, including solar products, washing machines and metals, according to Chad Bown, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics.As the Chinese negotiators prepared to return to Beijing on Monday, industry representatives were struggling to understand the status of the talks and evaluate the effect on their businesses.Business owners and lobbyists have generally agreed with some of the administrations goals, including fighting for more equal treatment for foreign companies operating in China. But they have disagreed with the use of tariffs as leverage  since that tends to hurt American importers and their customers  and Mr. Trumps focus on the bilateral trade deficit.While the United States and China seem nearer to an agreement than in previous months, companies that operate in China have not been released from uncertainty. Mr. Trump views trade as one of his signature issues, and his advisers say that, when it comes to a final deal, the president will be the one to decide if it passes muster.Mr. Trump has often weighed in at the last minute to change the terms in past negotiations, imposing tariffs or lifting sanctions based on personal conversations with foreign leaders or perceived compliments or slights.The president has undercut, privately or publicly, every one of his trade representatives, said William Reinsch, a former United States trade official and now a senior adviser at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. The president is his own trade representative and hes going to make the decisions.In the Oval Office on Friday, Mr. Trump contradicted his top trade adviser in front of TV cameras about whether the agreement should be termed a memorandum of understanding, a phrase Mr. Trump said was not forceful enough.Still, the president was upbeat. Mr. Trump in a tweet called the talks very productive.The lack of detail about what the United States and China may agree to is prompting concern from both Republicans and Democrats, who worry that Mr. Trump may sign a deal that does little to change many of the practices that American companies say put them  and their workers  at a competitive disadvantage.Lawmakers will get a chance to grill the administration about its plans this week when Robert Lighthizer, Mr. Trumps top trade adviser, testifies about the China talks and other trade actions on Wednesday.For now, Republicans are portraying the delay as a positive.Encouraging news from @POTUS that progress is being made in a trade deal with China, Representative Patrick J. Toomey, a Republican from Pennsylvania, tweeted. Hopefully this leads to an agreement that stops Chinas theft of US intellectual property and avoids a full blown trade war.Complications could still arise, however, including Chinas importance in helping the United States negotiate with North Korea. The Chinese have assisted the Trump administration in arranging another summit meeting with Kim Jong-un in Hanoi this week and Mr. Trump has often cited Mr. Xis relationship with Mr. Kim, which has put Mr. Trump in the awkward position of depending on Chinas assistance while also trying to play tough and win a trade deal.President Xi of China has been very helpful in his support of my meeting with Kim Jong Un, Mr. Trump tweeted on Sunday. The last thing China wants are large scale nuclear weapons right next door. Sanctions placed on the border by China and Russia have been very helpful. Great relationship with Chairman Kim!Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Dave PhilippsSHREVEPORT, La.  Transgender troops like Senior Airman Sterling Crutcher are seen as an unreasonable burden by the Trump administration. It says their presence hurts morale and the militarys ability to fight, and that they have no place in uniform.Thats news to Airman Crutcher. He just got back from a deployment with his B-52 bomber squadron, and when he did, fellow airmen in his squadron, whom he counts among his best friends, threw a shower for him and his wife, Aimee, to celebrate their first child, born in February.[Sign up for the weekly At War newsletter to receive stories about duty, conflict and consequence.]At my level, its not an issue, Airman Crutcher, 30, said about serving while transgender. I can meet and exceed all the standards, and the people I work with, they like me. They have a lot of questions, but they dont have a problem.This has been an uneasy time for transgender troops in the United States military, caught between a commander in chief who wants them out and court injunctions that, at least temporarily, said they could stay. (The last of the injunctions was lifted on Thursday.)But dozens of transgender troops like Airman Crutcher said in interviews that they felt supported in the service. Their comrades and commanders have welcomed them, they said, and the military has often been more accepting than the homes and neighborhoods they left to enlist.Nearly 1,000 troops officially deemed as transgender are currently serving in the American military, according to the Defense Department, and another 228 are in the process of enlisting. They are all over the globe in a wide spectrum of roles  infantry officers, armor platoon leaders, drill sergeants, intelligence specialists, Arabic linguists, nuclear reactor operators. A transgender instructor teaches leadership at the Naval Academy.They started coming out publicly in 2016 when the military lifted a longtime ban, after concluding that doing so would have no significant negative impact on budgets or operations. But President Trump announced an abrupt reversal of policy on Twitter a year later, saying he would no longer allow transgender troops to serve in any capacity.The Defense Department laid out its arguments for excluding transgender troops before the House Armed Services Committee late last month. James N. Stewart, a senior Pentagon official, testified that transgender troops were more prone to mental health issues than other troops, and that when they transition, medical treatments can make them nondeployable for months  factors that he said would make recruits ineligible to serve if they stemmed from other kinds of pre-existing health conditions.Mr. Stewart, who is a retired Air Force general, rejected calling the policy a ban, saying that the policy drafted after the presidents Twitter announcement still allows transgender troops to serve, as long as they never transition.He argued that having troops who have transitioned in the ranks could also raise complicated questions about physical fitness standards and access to shower and bathroom facilities that may upset others, leading to unnecessary and debilitating leadership challenges.Other troops and military leaders disagree. Five transgender troops who also testified at the hearing said that, aside from the uncertainty created by the change in policy, they had encountered few problems transitioning in uniform. Instances of harassment have been few, according to Sparta, an association of transgender troops.And in testimony before the Senate last spring, the heads of the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps all said they were not aware of any issues caused by having transgender troops serving openly.Airman Crutcher says that few people outside his unit realize he is transgender. He relaxes on weekends by playing video games and has Airsoft gun battles with the other troops from his unit.Theres nothing remarkable about him either way, said Senior Airman Kyle Daily, who serves in the same squadron. There are some people in the unit who dont agree with what he is, but theyre the minority.Many transgender recruits come from socially conservative small towns or strict religious upbringings, and have spent their youth feeling like misfits. Some troops who were born anatomically male said in interviews that they enlisted with the initial hope that military service would drum feminine feelings out of them.I hoped it would straighten me out  I didnt want my family to hate me, said Aylanna Anderson, an Air Force staff sergeant who was raised Catholic in a tiny West Texas town and became an Eagle Scout. I hoped I could leave what I saw as this dark part of me behind.To her surprise, after enlisting in 2012, Sergeant Anderson said, she found a culture that emphasized judging people by ability, not identity. She began to transition to female in 2017.The military has been very freeing, she said by phone from Kunsan Air Base in South Korea, where she repairs electronics in F-16 fighters. I dont know if I could have done it otherwise.Airman Crutcher, who grew up in a Pentecostal household in rural Missouri, said he wrote a heartfelt letter to his family about his lifelong sense of being a boy in a girls body, but they refused to read it, asking him instead if he was on drugs.By contrast, when he came out to his Air Force commander, he said the reaction was, What do I need to do for you? I want to make sure you are supported.A few days back from a deployment to Guam with his bomber squadron, he was shopping for a crib with his pregnant wife when they got a text from his mother.But it wasnt his birth mother, who he says essentially disowned him after he told her in 2015 that he was transgender. It was his Air Force mother  Kim Thomas, the wife of a lieutenant colonel, who informally adopted him after meeting him during basic training. He now spends holidays with her family and calls her Mom.Shes the best, Airman Crutcher said as he leaned over his wifes phone to see the photo Ms. Thomas had sent of a new outfit for the baby. It was life-changing to have that support of family who love me no matter what.Ms. Thomas said taking Airman Crutcher under her wing came naturally. Here is this amazing kid who volunteered to fight and die for our country, she said. We are not going to allow him to go through the military without support.A 2016 RAND Corporation study found that nearly one-fifth of transgender troops do not plan to transition medically. Those who do transition may, depending on gender and preference, undergo hormone therapy, breast removal and other procedures, like surgery to make facial features and voices more gender appropriate. All are covered by the military.Transitioning troops can also request surgery to change their genitals, but the approval process and recovery time can be lengthy. The Defense Department did not respond to questions about how many such gender reassignment procedures had been performed on troops since the ban was lifted in 2016; Sparta estimates the figure at about six.The cost and disruption associated with surgery is a chief complaint of critics, but the  RAND study estimated that those factors would be negligible, with fewer than 200 active troops transitioning per year at a total cost of less than $10 million. In interviews, troops who have transitioned said they tried to time their surgical procedures for scheduled lulls in unit activity, and sometimes put them off because of deployments or demanding work assignments.Even so, transitioning can detour careers. Some Sparta members said they had been removed from sensitive jobs such as pilots, air traffic controllers or nuclear missile operators, out of concern that they might be mentally unstable.Regulations can get in the way, as well. Airman Crutcher was sent home early from a 2016 deployment to Qatar when medical staff discovered that the testosterone treatments he was receiving violated a rule about injected medications for troops deployed in the region.I was crushed, he said. My major called me in and said he had fought for me to stay, but it was regulations.Capt. Alivia Stehlik is a transgender woman who graduated from West Point as a man in 2008, completed the Armys punishing Ranger School and led an infantry platoon. She is now an Army physical therapist stationed at Fort Carson, Colo.In an interview at her home, she said her transition should be seen as an asset, not a burden.She volunteered to deploy to Afghanistan with an infantry brigade last spring after the units regular physical therapist became pregnant. Captain Stehlik spent nearly a year hopping helicopters from base to base, treating sprains and other injuries with a medical bag in one hand and an M-4 rifle in the other.Six-foot-three and broad-shouldered, she said it would have been pretty obvious to the 1,700 soldiers she treated that she was transgender, but it was never a problem.Its not just that as a woman I can still do the same job I did as a man  I can actually do it better, Captain Stehlik said. People were actually more open with me because I had made myself more vulnerable to them. I think if I were still a guy, they might have downplayed how much things hurt, tried to act tough. And I might have, too.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Azi Paybarah [Want to get New York Today by email? Here's the sign-up.]Its Tuesday. The old Tappan Zee Bridge will be partially blown up around 10 a.m. The demolition will be televised.Weather:  A perfectly average mid-January day: a few clouds, a high of 37. A stormy weekend ahead, with snow and rain.Alternate-side parking: in effect till Monday.The L train was supposed to shut down for repairs come April. The plan to move passengers around during that time took years to prepare, costing millions.But it would be worthwhile, transit officials said. All they needed was 15 months with no trains in the tunnel connecting Manhattan and Brooklyn.Then Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo stepped in. His new plan would allow trains in the tunnel during rush hour, and less frequently on nights and weekends. How? New technology never before used in America. Presto!Mr. Cuomo was praised by some as a subway savior. Others wondered why the eggheads running the trains didnt think of this in the first place.But it turns out  they had!According to documents obtained by The Times, in 2014, transit officials rejected a similar idea  which involved mounting cables on the side of the tunnel walls  because of concerns about safety and reliability.[Read our full story on why the earlier plan was rejected.] The aging walls may not be strong enough to hold the cables, transit officials concluded earlier. And drilling into the wall (technically, this part is called the bench wall) may kick up a particularly unhealthy kind of dust that may be hard to clean before the morning rush.Aides to Mr. Cuomo said key details were different enough in his plan to make it safer and more efficient than what was previously considered.The Timess transit reporter, Emma Fitzsimmons, said: This leaves us with a big question about why Governor Cuomo didnt reveal that the M.T.A. already considered this option. He presented it as this ingenious idea. But that wasnt the whole story.More broadly, she noted, This is one of the most high-profile examples of how the governor has taken a hands-on role at the M.T.A., even though he says hes not responsible for it.How an idiosyncratic video arcade survived for decades:  Not quite Barcade. Not quite Dave & Busters. Chinatown Fair is something else entirely.El Chapos life, in the mountains: Wake up at noon. Get messages. Work on a book. Is the army nearby? Run!An expensive art-world split:  Libbie and David Mugrabis divorce may shed light on how a powerful art-dealing couple amassed a fortune and shielded their finances.No cottage industry: An empire of illegal Airbnb rentals booked 75,000 guests, a suit says.Is your neighbor a hoarder?  Heres some advice.Lin-Manuel Miranda, in Hamilton, in Puerto Rico: The show debuted as the island continues to struggle.Turn down for what? Our critic tells the New York Philharmonic Louder isnt better, and to ditch the hard-edge sounds.R. Kelly accuser met with the N.Y.P.D.:  Her lawyer, Gloria Allred, said she hoped this would lead to an investigation. [1010 WINS]N.Y.C. tabloid covers, on display in London: An artist collected front pages about President Trump. The problem is not so much the quality of news, but how quickly we forget, the artist said. [ItsNiceThat.com]Moving a Saudi flag away from the World Trade Center: An art installation is being relocated after critics objected. [Observer]Replace 21 gas-fired power plants with renewable energy: Thats what a councilman wants the city to come up with plans to do by the end of the year. [HuffPost]Killed over $22 in gas: A gas station worker on Long Island was fatally struck by a driver trying to flee without paying. [WABC] Emeril Lagasses first N.Y.C. restaurant: Its inside the Chelsea Hotel. The flavor: healthy Greek fare with a splash of New Orleans decadence. [New York Post]The author Rebecca Traister discusses her book Good and Mad: The Revolutionary Power of Womens Anger at the Brooklyn Historical Society. 6:30 p.m. [$10]The scholar Denise Murrell talks about the history of the black female figure in Western art at the Art Students League of New York. 6:30 p.m. [Free]The 10-year anniversary of Tyrannosaurus, the long-running weekly comedy show at RaR Bar in Astoria. 9 p.m. [Free]Crusader, an exhibition showcasing rare photos of Martin Luther King Jrs travels, opens at the Schomburg Center. (Happy birthday, Dr. King.) 5 p.m. [Free]A night of French Jazz at Nublu in the East Village. 8 p.m. [$20] Iman StevensonEvents are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Timess culture pages.Everybody worked together, so everybody survived. This was the Miracle on the Hudson.Capt. Chesley Sullenberger, the pilot of US Airways Flight 1549, landed in the Hudson River on Jan. 15, 2009, and he feels we are due for another lesson.This lack of civic virtue, this lack of remembering our common humanity, this lack of citizenship, is greatly harmful to our nation, to our democracy, to the world, Captain Sullenberger, 67, said in an interview.He added, I feel that I have yet another mission, to be an advocate for our democracy, be a defender of our democracy, as many others have done.As for that flight, he said: I have even greater appreciation now for what everyone did who pulled together. Especially in light of whats happening in our nation now.The retired pilot known as Sully talked a little more with us about planes and politics:Michael Bloomberg was mayor the day you landed in the Hudson. He and others may run for president. I think like many of our fellow countrymen, like many Americans, I think Im going to wait and see what all our options are.Sounds like you are running for vice president.No. First of all, its a great honor to be thought of that way by others, by some. But my way of answering that is that I run  in fact, I ran this morning  but Im not running.Anything you want people to remember about this flight?I want to re-emphasize that this is the result, the successful flight was the result of the efforts of many: my crew, the passengers themselves who were cooperative especially in the evacuation, the rescuers, all the first responders of New York and New Jersey. I cant say enough about the support of my family. And my wife, Lorrie, has been the best partner in all of this.Its Tuesday  dont let them birds get you down.Dear Diary:Location: A bookshelf in Gramercy Thrift Shop.Occasion: Bargain hunting with my mother.Observation: Three juxtaposed titles: The Death of Feminism: Whats Next in the Struggle for Womens Freedom, by Phyllis Chesler; How to Be a Party Girl, by Pat Montandon; Mr. Boston: Official Bartenders and Party Guide Paul KlenkNew York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m. Sign up here to get it by email. You can also find it at nytoday.com.Were experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us: nytoday@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
Paul Manaforts Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dads Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: Coal Mining Isnt Coming BackHouse Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab SpringCan The President Be Impeached? We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season
"President Trump bought McDonalds, Wendys, Dominos and Burger King for the Clemson football teams visit to the White House on Monday. The fine dining that is typical for visiting players was substituted with fast food because of the government shutdown, Mr. Trump said."
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Mihir ZaveriPresident Trump came away empty-handed for now after the longest federal government shutdown in American history failed to pressure Congress into funding his long-promised border wall, purportedly to stop an inflow of drugs and crime from Mexico.But he is not done making his case on immigration.On Sunday he rattled off several figures on Twitter about how many undocumented immigrants there are in the United States, how much they cost the country financially and how many had illegally voted in Texas.There were already many problems with Mr. Trumps assertion that undocumented immigrants disproportionately bring with them more drugs and crime. And several experts said they had concerns with the figures he disseminated on Sunday.The White House did not respond to a request for comment.In one tweet on Sunday, Mr. Trump said that 58,000 non-citizens voted in Texas, with 95,000 non-citizens registered to vote. He was citing an investigation that Texas officials had publicized days earlier but that Democrats in the state immediately questioned.The investigation, by the Texas secretary of states office, said that 95,000 people who were registered to vote in the state had at some point told a law enforcement agency that they were not citizens. Out of that number, 58,000 had voted at some point since 1996.Politicians and voters advocates are asking officials to investigate both figures.Because we have consistently seen Texas politicians conjure the specter of voter fraud as pretext to suppress legitimate votes, we are naturally skeptical, Representative Rafael Anchia, a Democrat in the state House, told The New York Times.Even if the numbers are deemed accurate, those 58,000 voters could have become citizens before casting ballots. More than 50,000 people were naturalized in Texas in 2017, according to the Department of Homeland Security.We have a reason to distrust these numbers, said Andre Segura, the legal director for the A.C.L.U. of Texas. Theres a long history of these numbers being inaccurate. Voter fraud is extremely rare.In Florida, the administration of the former governor, Rick Scott, had tried to purge noncitizens from voter rolls in 2012. It started with a list of 180,000 voters based on drivers license data, according to The Tampa Bay Times. Ultimately, 85 people were removed from the rolls, according to the newspaper.In another tweet, Mr. Trump said that the cost of illegal immigration so far this year is $18,959,495,168. Cost Friday was $603,331,392.It is not clear where Mr. Trump arrived at those figures. They track with a tweet from last month in which he declared that the country loses 250 Billion Dollars a year on illegal immigration.But several experts said those figures were far too high.There is little research on how much undocumented immigrants cost the United States. The highest costs would generally be related to education and health care, but many undocumented immigrants pay taxes and are typically barred from receiving many of the costliest benefits, like Medicaid.No study seems to comprehensively address a net cost, instead focusing on either the costs or the benefits.They tend to talk past each other, unfortunately, said Randy Capps, the director of research for American programs at the Migration Policy Institute.The National Academy of Sciences concluded in 2016 that immigration, both legal and illegal, benefited the economy. It said that the average immigrant cost state and local governments about $1,600 a year from 2011 to 2013, but that their children and grandchildren paid far more in taxes than they consumed in public services.Alex Nowrasteh, a senior immigration policy analyst at the Cato Institute, said the highest figure he had seen came from the Federation for American Immigration Reform, which favors restricting immigration. It has said undocumented immigrants cost the country at least $116 billion per year.The Cato Institute disputes that figure, which Mr. Nowrasteh said did not take into account the economic benefits of undocumented immigrants. He and others have questioned the groups methodology.Theres no basis to any of those numbers about the fiscal cost, he said. The presidents numbers are even twice as bad.Mr. Trump also claimed that in the United States there are at least 25,772,342 illegal aliens, not the 11,000,000 that have been reported for years.Again, several experts said Mr. Trumps numbers were too high.It appears that Mr. Trump is making his claim based on a study conducted by researchers affiliated with Yale University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, which estimated the number at 22 million.Starting with an estimate in 1990, the researchers modeled how the population would change in future years based on immigration rates, demographic change and deportations, among other factors, eventually arriving at the 22 million estimate.The conclusions of that study, published in the journal PLOS One in September, have been challenged, with some questioning whether it underestimated the number of immigrants who had left the country.The researchers have also acknowledged that their results diverge from existing estimates. Most other studies say the number is around 11 million or 12 million. The Pew Research Center estimated that it was about 10.7 million in 2016. In 2015, the Department of Homeland Security estimated the number to be 12 million.Theres been no evidence of a new, rapid increase of the population, Mr. Capps said.William Frey, a demographer at the Brookings Institution, said the methodology used by Pew had been vetted over decades.They have a general sense that what they are doing is reasonably O.K., he said of the Pew researchers. I trust them. They have been doing this for a long time.Manny Fernandez contributed reporting.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Sopan DebArrested Development, the comedy about the Bluth family that upended so many television conventions, is coming back. Again.On Tuesday, Netflix announced that eight episodes comprising the second half of its fifth season will be released on the streaming service on March 15.In these episodes, according to a news release, Pressures mount on the Bluth family as Buster heads toward a murder trial. The Bluth company is on the hook to build a smart border wall that puts them in debt and risks exposing a software hoax perpetrated by George-Michael. Soon the gay mafia is involved and it appears that even Michael cant save the family this time. And Tobias becomes a Golden Girl.Last spring, the shows public image came under harsh scrutiny during the press tour for the first half of Season 5 after The New York Times published a controversial interview featuring most of the main cast. Tensions ran high when the subject turned to Jeffrey Tambor (who plays George Sr.), who had recently been fired from the Amazon series Transparent following accusations of sexual misconduct on set. Tambor admitted he had a temper and yelled at people.In response, Jason Bateman (Michael) suggested that Tambors atypical behavior was the nature of the entertainment industry. Alia Shawkat (Maeby Fnke) interjected: But that doesnt mean its acceptable.Jessica Walter (Lucille) teared up when she spoke of her own experiences with Tambor: Verbally, yes, he harassed me, but he did apologize.Almost 60 years of working, Ive never had anybody yell at me like that on a set and its hard to deal with, Walter continued, but Im over it now.Following criticism of the statements made seemingly in defense of Tambor, Netflix canceled its U.K. press tour; some of the actors, including Bateman and his co-star Tony Hale, who also participated in the interview, publicly apologized for their comments.Its unclear whether these new episodes of Arrested Development will be the last. In an interview on the Late Night with Seth Meyers Podcast, David Cross (Tobias Fnke) said, Ive learned to say never say never, but I cant see it happening again, I think for a number of reasons.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byOn WashingtonBy Carl HulseWASHINGTON  Members of Congress like to say that governing is not a game, but they are increasingly playing round after round of gotcha.As a watershed election looms next year and little of real significance is happening on the legislative front, lawmakers are consumed with trying to trap one another with hot-button votes that dont have much to do with real legislative business.Whether such show votes really matter when it comes to actual voters is another issue entirely. It is hard to find a case in which an incumbent senator or representative was knocked off solely because of an ill-considered decision in a postmidnight vote-a-rama in the Senate or on a particularly devious motion to recommit in the House.Its unlikely that a single vote will undermine a members re-election chances, said Nathan L. Gonzales, the nonpartisan political handicapper and editor and publisher of Inside Elections.Still, that is not going to stop anyone  particularly Republicans at the moment  from trying. Much of the activity on Capitol Hill these days is more akin to trolling on Twitter than tackling national priorities.For instance, Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, is gleefully preparing to force Democrats to take a stand on the so-called Green New Deal resolution, which, among other things, calls for 100 percent of American energy to come from clean sources within 10 years.The nonbinding document is essentially a set of ambitious progressive goals that has zero chance of passage in a Republican-controlled Senate with Donald J. Trump as president. As legislation, it would take years to develop and push through Congress. But Republicans are itching for a vote now to get Democrats, notably the presidential contenders, on the record. They have relentlessly mocked the Green New Deal as a framework for eliminating airplane travel and cheeseburgers because of restrictions on fossil fuels and cow emissions.We have done some wacky things on our side, but this is the wackiest thing I have ever seen, said Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee.Democrats call the coming Republican maneuver a cynical stunt. They have suggested they will simply vote present and not be recorded on the resolution  a stance that may cost them with progressives who want Democrats to have the courage of their convictions no matter how premature the vote might be.At the same time, Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, has demanded that Republicans offer an alternative, an offer they seem unlikely to accept. He also wants a vote on a separate Democratic resolution that would call for immediate action on climate change. His trap is to try to either force Republicans to admit climate change is real or deny it  a result that could hurt them no matter the outcome.When is Leader McConnell going to schedule time for consideration of this and other climate change legislation? asked Mr. Schumer, who is newly embracing climate change as an issue that appeals to younger voters.While the Senate is playing green deal or no green deal, the House is caught up in an arcane struggle that gives the term inside baseball a bad name. Newly relegated to the minority, House Republicans have been tormenting the Democratic majority with what is known as a motion to recommit.It is basically one final opportunity for the minority party to amend legislation about to pass on the floor. It has been transformed by both parties over the years as minority leaders have learned to spring politically charged M.T.R.s, as they are known, on the majority at the last minute. Mayor Rahm Emanuel of Chicago, a former member of the House Democratic leadership who cut his political teeth on House races, was one of the early adapters of a weaponized motion to recommit and considered it a form of psychological political warfare.Obviously, they are gotcha amendments designed to give people political problems, said Representative Steny H. Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland and the majority leader. And by the way, thats what we did. So this is not a new, you know, invention of the Republicans.For Democrats, the problem is that Republicans seem to be better at drafting the motions. Now some are passing with the support of nervous new Democratic lawmakers from tough districts who dont want to be caught on the wrong side of issues such as gun sales, immigration, anti-Semitism or domestic violence. The split has incited an internal party fight and has leaders worried that the more the motions pass, the more they will be considered serious rather than procedural and lead to political problems down the road.You have members who won by less than a percentage point, and I have sympathy for them, said Representative Jim McGovern, Democrat of Massachusetts, who oversees the Rules Committee. But he said Democrats could not allow Republicans to carry the day with their political guerrilla attacks. We cannot legitimize their underhanded tactics. It is just to put people in a bad spot.The Republican success has some Democrats calling for a rules change to either dilute or eliminate the motion to recommit, talk that has Republicans crying foul. They say Democrats are already retreating on their pledge to make the House more transparent and bipartisan than it was under Republican control the previous eight years.Here we are just two months into the new Democratic majority, which was touted to be about open debate, with an issue about process, said Representative Tom Cole of Oklahoma, the top Republican on the Rules Committee. He called discussion of changes to the motion to recommit an affront to the institution.Mr. McGovern said that any consideration of changes would be part of an extensive dialogue. After spending a fair amount of time in the minority himself, he showed some reluctance to tinker with the motion to recommit no matter the potential penalty for Democrats.I still believe the minority should be guaranteed a constructive voice in the legislative process, Mr. McGovern said. You cant just shut everybody out. That is not what this place is about and shouldnt be about.It probably also shouldnt be about a running game of gotcha.Follow Carl Hulse on Twitter: @hillhulse.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning.Indias prime minister turns a religious event into a political one, Jeff Bezos challenges a tabloid newspaper and musics biggest stars get ready for the Grammys. Heres the latest:Every six years, tens of millions of Hindus make a religious pilgrimage to the northern state of Uttar Pradesh to take a dip in the holy waters of the Ganges River  one of the holiest events in the Hindu calendar and among the worlds largest gatherings of humanity.This years festival aligns with national elections that are expected to be held in April or May, providing Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Hindu nationalist bloc, the Bharatiya Janata Party, with a prized opportunity to woo voters and deflect from political and economic woes.By the numbers: Mr. Modi and his close ally, Yogi Adityanath, a monk turned chief minister of the state, have spent $600 million to turn this Kumbh into the most lavish one yet, adding nine new highway flyovers; 22 bridges; 20,000 trash cans; 122,500 toilets; and a new airport terminal.Analysis: Critics argue that Mr. Modi and his party have politicized religion in a secular country, often catering to a Hindu base at the expense of minority communities, such as Muslims.Separately: A nuns accusations of rape against a bishop in Kerala have shaken the countrys Catholics, driving a wedge between those who have called for reforms and those who want to maintain unity amid rising a riding tide of Hindu nationalism.Sheikha Latifa  one of 30 children of the ruler of Dubai, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum  tried to escape to the U.S. via India last March, informing her friends that she would be free soon.Less than a week later, she went silent and, in December, her family released photos of her back at home. Her mysterious case has since become a stain on Dubais globalized image. Background: In a secret video she recorded before her planned departure from Dubai, Sheikha Latifa described her life of constricting privilege.She said she first tried to escape the kingdom many years ago but was taken back immediately and held in solitary confinement for more than three years in which she was frequently beaten and deprived of medical care.At 19, when she was released, she still wasnt free: She could spend her money only on hobbies and sports. She wasnt allowed to study medicine, as she wanted, or travel.Analysis: Like the accounts of women who have tried to escape Saudi Arabia, Sheikha Latifas case has marred Dubais glittering image, reminding the world of the few freedoms women have there, regardless of status or nationality. In other news from the region: Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia said in 2017, the year before the dissident journalist Jamal Khashoggi was killed in Turkey, that he would use a bullet on Mr. Khashoggi, according to current and former American and foreign officials with direct knowledge of intelligence reports.In a surprise blog post last week, Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon, accused the tabloid newspaper The National Enquirer of extortion and blackmail, spurring federal prosecutors to review his claims.Explainer: Last month, The Enquirer published an 11-page expos on Mr. Bezos extramarital affair with Lauren Sanchez, a former host of the Fox TV show So You Think You Can Dance. The piece, which included paparazzi shots of the couple and their text messages, appeared a day after Mr. Bezos announced he was divorcing his wife of 25 years, MacKenzie.The piece set off questions that the coverage was politically motivated. David Pecker, the chairman of American Media Inc., which publishes The Enquirer, is close to President Trump, who has repeatedly derided Amazon and Mr. Bezos other company, The Washington Post.After The Enquirer published the piece, Mr. Bezos began his own investigation into how the paper obtained his private messages and its motives.Mr. Bezos response: In his blog post, Mr. Bezos said the paper was threatening to publish graphic photographs of him, including a below-the-belt selfie, if he didnt publicly affirm that The Enquirers reporting was not motivated by politics.If in my position I cant stand up to this kind of extortion, how many people can? wrote Mr. Bezos. You can read excerpts from his blog post here. And heres a timeline of how events unfolded.Analysis: By using a digital platform to bring his side of the story directly to the masses, Mr. Bezos has done something both admirable and also a little scary, writes Kara Swisher, our tech opinion columnist. It is perhaps the best illustration of the in-your-face aggressiveness that has made him the richest man in the world.When a mining dam collapsed in the town of Brumadinho last month, it unleashed a deluge of toxic mud that stretched for five miles, crushing homes and offices and killing more than 150 people.But the tragedy was hardly a surprise, experts told us.Analysis: There are 88 mining dams in Brazil built like the one that failed: enormous reservoirs of mining waste held back by little more than walls of sand and silt.Even more alarming, at least 28 sit directly uphill from cities or towns, with more than 100,000 people living in especially risky areas if the dams failed, an estimate by The New York Times found.How we know: Our team interviewed engineers and locals to take an expansive look at the disaster, reconstructing the muds deadly journey and illustrating how these dams are built and what led the one in Brumadinho to crumble.Thailand: Hours after his sister entered the race for prime minister, King Vajiralongkorn rebuked the move as highly inappropriate, effectively ending her candidacy, in an episode that upended the already volatile political landscape.South Korea: The country signed an agreement to share the cost of the American military base there, increasing its contribution by 8.2 percent. The agreement aims to ease fears that President Trump might use the reduction of U.S. troops as a bargaining chip when he meets with North Koreas leader, Kim Jong-un, this month.Turkey: Ankara condemned Chinas mass internment of its Uighur Muslim minority as a great shame for humanity and urged Beijing to close down the camps in Xinjiang, said to hold an estimated million people. It was a rare rebuke from a Muslim-majority nation. China dismissed the statement as a serious violation of the facts.Huawei: The Chinese company threatened legal action against the Czech Republic after its cybersecurity agency issued a formal warning about the risks of using Huawei technology, joining a growing wave of skepticism in Europe toward the telecom giant.Grammys: The music industrys annual award ceremony kicks off imminently, with Alicia Keys hosting. Kendrick Lamar, Drake, Cardi B and the country singer Kacey Musgraves are among the nominees for album of the year, but will that be enough to put out concerns about the shows lack of diversity?Gender equality on the waves: Female surfers are trying to break into the male-dominated arena of big-wave contests  and to get paid as much as their counterparts.No chance of a second date: A rare male Sumatran tiger called Asim was matched with a female named Melati. But their first meeting at the London Zoo quickly escalated into aggression and he mauled her to death.Hunga Tonga-Hunga Haapai: The young island in the South Pacific, birthed in an underwater volcano eruption four years ago, could unearth clues about how water shaped the landscape of Mars.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Transform cauliflower into a weeknight vegan curry. (Sign up for the Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter for more recipe recommendations.)Word of the day: gynandromorph. An organism that has both male and female physical characteristics in various parts of its body, like this rare cardinal bird.Is your child spending money on in-app purchases? We compiled a few ways to avoid bait apps.Once youve Marie Kondo-ed your belongings, what do you do next?It was 1983, and 47 million people in the U.S. were watching when Michael Jackson moonwalked across the stage to his hit Billie Jean during a TV special.The performance immortalized a move that re-entered the public consciousness recently, when Virginias governor, Ralph Northam, said he had dressed as Jackson and done the moonwalk during a dance contest in 1984.The move, in which the dancer glides backward while appearing to walk forward, inspired Mr. Northam, as well as the title of Jacksons 1988 autobiography. In it, the performer describes the moonwalk as a break-dance step, a popping type of thing that black kids had created dancing on street corners in the ghetto.Jackson didnt invent the moonwalk, which had been performed for decades by a range of entertainers (albeit often by a more literal name, the backslide). But it was the King of Pop who would be remembered, as one dance critic put it, coasting backward across the stage, step by gliding step, as if on a cushion of air.Chris Stanford, on the briefings team, wrote todays Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Advertisement"
" For its annual orchid display, the New York Botanical Garden has drawn inspiration from Southeast Asia. Rich beauty abounds.CreditCreditGus Powell for The New York TimesSupported byBy William L. HamiltonIts like being hit with a ton of  blossoms.The Orchid Show: Singapore, the New York Botanical Gardens 17th annual orchid extravaganza, running through April 28, features the natural species and hybridized sensations of Southeast Asia  upward of 70 percent of the display in the Enid A. Haupt Conservatory. Thousands of them, in hundreds of varieties and every conceivable  and inconceivable  shape, size and color.The orchid, once an aristocratic rarity, now a ubiquity  you can buy them at Home Depot  is still the most unnatural-looking flower of the natural world, dizzying in its opulent, adamant oddity. And thats just one on its own.Its actually surpassed the poinsettia as the most horticulturally produced crop in the world, said Marc Hachadourian, senior curator of orchids at the New York Botanical Garden. Theyre the pandas of the plant world  theyre charismatic, theyre colorful, theyre engaging.The botanical gardens partners on the show are Singapore Botanic Gardens, whose National Orchid Garden has the largest collection in the world, and Singapores Gardens by the Bay, a green-themed entertainment attraction where the wedding party finale in Crazy Rich Asians was filmed. Singapore, which at one time called itself a garden city, now calls itself a city within a garden. The orchid, mass-produced and energetically hybridized as a major export industry, is its national flower.In a stroll through the conservatory recently, it was difficult not to think of Mr. Hachadourian as the Wizard of Oz, surveying his realm of perfect, unimaginable riches. Vanda, Dendrobium, Cymbidium, Phalaenopsis and Paphiopedilum, he said, Linnaeuss botanical Latin rolling off his tongue as deftly as the daily specials, pointing to the jewel-like faces to the right and left of us. It was an oddly extraordinary experience, as if everything ordinary had been Photoshopped out of the picture: an emerald Instagramatic city, with a kind of plant-phantom Pokmon at play.The ambassador of the orchids new ubiquity is the Phalaenopsis, in a Calvin Klein-underwear white. Known as the grocery store orchid, it is widely, inexpensively available, and the lifestyle star of everything from luxury-condo advertising to wellness spas and supermarkets. Toppled from the throne is the cattleya: the frilled grandmotherly orchid that forms the stuff of corsages. Proust is wearing one on his lapel in Jacques-Emile Blanches famous portrait of 1892.Because of the Phalaenopsiss clean, modern, broad-shouldered success, everyone is now trying their hands at orchids, losing their home-gardeners fears as orchids lose their stigma as tricky plants to cultivate.I own a ladys slipper and a Phalaenopsis, said Dr. Michelle Montenegro, who was visiting the conservatory with a colleague, Dr. Alec Petrie. Both are emergency room physicians at Jacobi Medical Center in the Bronx. Dr. Montenegro got her orchids at last years show. Theyre actually alive, she said, with a surprised laugh, when asked about their health. She built a special window shelf for them. The shelf is definitely helping, she added.Ive killed a lot of plants, said Dr. Petrie, whom Dr. Montenegro was trying to talk into an orchid. Im better with people She smiled. Todays the day, Im telling you, Dr. Montenegro said. Their next stop was the gardens book and gift shop.The gardens Singapore show has two major attractions. A pair of supertrees  18-foot-tall steel armatures in the trunk-like and canopied shape of actual trees  are versions of the artificial Supertrees in a vast grove at Gardens by the Bay, which is the setting for the scene in Crazy Rich Asians. Singapores Supertrees are over 160 feet tall, and  skyways traverse the tops. They are also embedded with photovoltaic cells, which collect energy  like living trees  that is used to power nighttime light displays choreographed to music. And theyre swathed, head to toe, in extra-terrestrial-looking foliage.Its sort of a Disneyland for plant lovers, said Karen Daubmann, the associate vice president for exhibitions, who visited Gardens by the Bay, and worked to replicate the supertrees in the Bronx. The orchids that were showcasing inside, at the conservatory, are things they grow outside. Its pretty wild.Like the ones in Singapore, the gardens supertrees were designed to demonstrate a particularly spectacular class of specimens, even for the tropics: epiphytes, or plants that grow without soil, on trees.Theyre a strange community that evolved to essentially climb the trees to get the best available light, water and moisture, Mr. Hachadourian said. Orchid alpha types; the acrobats of the plant kingdom.George Poinar Jr., a professor emeritus at Oregon State University, was the lead author of a 2017 study that established the orchids age at 45 million to 55 million years old, 25 million years older than previously believed. He told a science journal, We probably shouldnt say this about a plant, but orchids are very smart. The shows other major attraction, inspired by Singapores National Orchid Garden, is a promenade of arches, dripping with orchids, that leads to the conservatorys main dome. The colors move through a spectrum from yellow  Oncidium Goldiana, or the dancing lady orchid  to pink to darker, hotter shades. It is like walking under a rainbow.The Vandaceous Alliance is a signature group of orchids highly specific to Singapore, Mr. Hachadourian said, of their particularly large presence in the show. Singapores national flower is the Vanda Miss Joaquim, named for the woman who bred it in the 19th century: one of the earliest of artificially produced hybrids still in cultivation today. In the tradition of honoring people with their own cultivars (there exist, for example, first lady orchids from Mrs. Herbert Hoover' to the fuchsia-hued Rhyncholaeliocattleya Melania Trump')  the New York Botanical Garden has unveiled the Vanda Awkwafina, celebrating the actress who starred in Crazy Rich Asians. Awkwafina grew up in Queens, and recalled being taken to the garden for her fourth birthday, Ms. Daubmann said.The orchid  its connoisseurship and collecting  is no longer the exclusive domain of the retired, the academic or the moneyed fanatic that you might have expected it to be.Half of my room is dedicated to my plants, said Sebastian Trujillo, 18, a visitor services attendant at the garden. Around 415 plants. Its a jungle in there. Mr. Trujillo is a high school senior who lives with his parents in Kew Gardens, Queens. Now, theyre helping me build a greenhouse in the back of the house.With popularity, does the orchid  one of historys most enduring embodiments of the idea of rarity  run the risk, like any celebrity, of overexposure? If we see too many, will we lose the point?I asked him what he thought it was about orchids that seduced humans so completely that they were compelled to steal them, Susan Orlean, writing in her 1998 best-selling book, The Orchid Thief, asks a park ranger in Florida. Oh, mystery, beauty, unknowability, I suppose, he said shrugging.With an estimated 30,000 wild species worldwide, and hundreds of thousands  and rapidly counting  of breeders hybrids, the blooms not off the orchid yet.The Orchid Show: SingaporeThrough April 28 at the New York Botanical Garden, 2900 Southern Boulevard, Bronx; 718-817-8700, nybg.org. The garden is also hosting Orchid Evenings each weekend of the run. Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported bylettersThe special counsel delivers his findings, as the world waits to find out what they are.To the Editor:Re Mueller Delivers Findings on Trump-Russia Inquiry (nytimes.com, March 22):After nearly two years of intense scrutiny, secrecy, multiple indictments, guilty pleas and convictions, the special counsel, Robert Mueller, has delivered his report to Attorney General William Barr. This has arguably been the most significant investigation into possible criminal behavior by a president and his administration in American history, and we are told that Mr. Barr could deliver the Mueller report to Congress as early as this weekend.What Congress and the public will see is entirely up to the attorney general, but the fact that the report will soon be given to Congress is cause for hopefulness for millions of Americans, and at the same time a potential nightmare for Donald Trump.While I believe that this president is guilty of conspiracy, obstruction of justice and other impeachable or indictable crimes, if the Mueller report finds that Mr. Trump is not guilty of these crimes, so be it.Mr. Mueller is to be commended for his work as the special counsel who has conducted a historic investigation into Russian meddling in our election, and into who may or may not have colluded and conspired with the Russians during the 2016 campaign.Well done, Mr. Mueller. You have once again served your country with honor and dignity.Henry A. LowensteinNew YorkTo the Editor:Re My Hope for the Mueller Report, by James Comey (Op-Ed, March 22):It is the substance of the Mueller report that will be all-important, not the mere process. In other words, if Donald Trump or others acting with even his tacit consent conspired with the Russian government to corrupt our election process, or if this president has acted to obstruct the process in getting to the truth, and the report fails to pin down such misdeeds, justice will not have been done. If we are merely left to continue to wonder, the nation will remain as deeply divided as it now appears to be.Of course, other issues concerning this president remain no matter what the Mueller report concludes from its underlying investigation. The conflicts of interest that engulf this presidency and its seemingly unending divisive nature are issues that remain for Congress and the rest of us. The Trump presidency is like a classroom hypothetical of what can go wrong with our government and the speed with which it can happen.One thing Mr. Trump was right about: If Jeff Sessions had not recused himself in his role as attorney general from investigating the 2016 election, we might never have had a special counsel, and a complicit Republican Congress would have buried the entire matter. That is an if that should make us feel nervous about our system of justice.Bruce NeumanWater Mill, N.Y.To the Editor:Thank you for publishing James Comeys Op-Ed. His perspective is exactly how I feel. Every American citizen and the rest of the world need and deserve to see the Mueller report. Like Mr. Comey, I do not wish for impeachment, but rather a refusal by our citizens to support a man who is unfit to lead, lies without conscience, ignores the rule of law and undermines our system of justice.James P. GhiglioneLopez Island, Wash.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie AstorThere was no real doubt what the first question to Senator Amy Klobuchar would be.Backstage at the South by Southwest festival in Austin, Tex., where Ms. Klobuchar was the first in a series of presidential candidates to be interviewed on Saturday, the interviewer, Kara Swisher, asked: Do you want to start with the comb or end with the comb?Were going to start with the comb, Ms. Swisher, the co-founder of the technology news website Recode and a contributing opinion writer for The New York Times, concluded.The comb was a reference to a February New York Times article about how Ms. Klobuchar, a Minnesota Democrat, treats her staff in the Senate. In 2008, The Times reported, an aide bought her a salad in an airport but fumbled the plastic utensils. On the plane, Ms. Klobuchar berated the aide, pulled a comb out of her purse and ate the salad with it.It was me sort of doing a mom thing, Ms. Klobuchar responded at Saturdays event, co-sponsored by The Texas Tribune. I didnt have a fork. I used a comb to eat a salad very briefly on a plane in a MacGyver move.The fact that Ms. Klobuchar ate salad with a comb was not the main conclusion of the Times report. She did not mention on Saturday that, after finishing the salad, she handed the comb to the aide and ordered him to clean it.The article, based on interviews with more than two dozen former aides, also included details about how her Senate office employees who took paid parental leave were expected to stay in their job for three times as many weeks as they had taken off  and that if they didnt, according to an employee handbook, they would be required to pay back the money earned during their leave.In response to the article, Ms. Klobuchars office said it had never enforced that policy and would change the handbook. She did not address that on Saturday, and Ms. Swisher did not ask.Ms. Klobuchar, who has previously said she can be tough on people, acknowledged  as she has in past responses to reports on her treatment of her staff  that she was sometimes too tough. I can push them too hard, she said. I can always do better.Ms. Swisher then asked if Ms. Klobuchar felt the coverage of her treatment of staff members was sexist, given that many male politicians act similarly.Im not going to go there, she said, adding, Whatever it is, I just cant waste my time analyzing it, because the stakes are too high, and I care too much. Thats why I announced my candidacy in the middle of a blizzard by the Mississippi River.In the rest of the interview, Ms. Klobuchar and Ms. Swisher had wide-ranging discussions on health care, technology, foreign policy and other issues. Ms. Klobuchar expressed support for several policies to lower drug prices, including importing products from Canada (In Minnesota, we can see Canada from our porch, she joked); ending the pay for delay practice in which big pharmaceutical companies pay manufacturers not to produce generics; and allowing the government to negotiate drug prices with Medicare, a perennial proposal from Democrats.She criticized the relatively short sentence given to the former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort in his financial fraud case this week, citing her experience prosecuting white-collar crime and declaring, You cant have two systems of justice, one for the rich and powerful and one for everyone else. She denounced President Trump for his attacks on the news media, saying he tweets whatever he wants in the morning but doesnt respect the amendment that allows him to do it.She also said she disagreed with Representative Ilhan Omars recent comments about American politicians support for Israel, because I believe you can be true to your country and advocate for another country, whether it is Israel or Canada or Ethiopia  but condemned Mr. Trump for emboldening intolerance, including anti-Semitism, and noted Ms. Omars own background as a refugee.Asked about a recent proposal by Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, another presidential candidate, to break up big tech companies like Amazon, Apple, Google and Facebook, Ms. Klobuchar refused to commit to it. But she endorsed antitrust action and the breakup of monopolies broadly as one of the governing principles for ensuring that we have a capitalist system.Ms. Warren also appeared at South by Southwest on Saturday, speaking with Anand Giridharadas of Time magazine. Mr. Giridharadas began the interview by telling everyone in the audience who either worked for or hoped to work for one of those tech giants to stand, and then asking Ms. Warren to explain to them why she wanted to break up their companies.Picking Amazon as her example, Ms. Warren condemned the ability of such giants to, essentially, play on a field they control. Amazon not only runs a marketplace, she said, but uses its vast trove of information about consumers behavior in the marketplace to create and promote its own products.You can be an umpire  a platform  or you can own teams. Thats fine. But you cant be an umpire and own one of the teams thats in the game, she said. Break those things apart and we will have a much more competitive, robust market in America. Thats how capitalism should work.The monopolist will make fewer monopoly profits, she added. Boo-hoo.Pressed on what this outlook said about her philosophical differences with Senator Bernie Sanders, who is running on a democratic socialist platform, Ms. Warren said she wanted capitalism to work better.Theres an enormous amount to be gained from markets, she said. But markets have to have rules. They have to have a cop on the beat. Markets without rules are theft.As in her stump speeches, Ms. Warren also spoke at length about the systemic effects of racism, especially in worsening economic inequality. In the 1960s, she noted, when redlining and other forms of housing discrimination were legal, the homeownership gap between black and white Americans was 27 percentage points. Today, it is 30 percentage points.Race matters, she said. And until we say so and attack the problem head on, we are not going to fix it.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Hiroko Masuike(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.) Good evening. Heres the latest.1. Airports across the country have begun to buckle, bringing the government shutdown into many more Americans daily reality.The Transportation Security Administrations 51,000 employees were ordered to work without pay, but on this, the 24th day of the shutdown, about one in 13 failed to come in. Airports in Houston, Washington and Atlanta, above, were exercising contingency plans, a spokesman said.Canadian air traffic controllers sent their American counterparts pizza amid a the shutdown. And, yes, some were apparently garnished with Canadian bacon._____2. President Trumps relationship with Russia was a major focus of news over the weekend. (Catch up here, if you need to.)Tensions with newly empowered Democrats on Capitol Hill are rising  as are their worries that Mr. Trumps choice for attorney general, William Barr, above, might end the special counsels investigation into Russian election meddling.Mr. Barr, however, made clear his intention to allow Robert Mueller to proceed in written remarks that he plans to deliver on Tuesday at the start of his two-day confirmation hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee.It is in the best interest of everyone  the president, Congress, and, most importantly, the American people  that this matter be resolved by allowing the special counsel to complete his work, he said in the written testimony._____3. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo met with Saudi Arabias crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, to discuss several thorny issues that have weakened the U.S.-Saudi alliance, including the killing of the dissident Jamal Khashoggi by Saudi agents.At the same time, Mr. Pompeo reaffirmed the two nations shared opposition to Iran.He also said he had raised concerns over the imprisonment of womens rights activists. Their commitment was that the process, the lawful judicial process here, would take place, he said at a news conference.But many of the most prominent activists being held have not been charged with any crimes, making it unclear what process he was referring to._____4. British Parliament is gearing up for a critical vote on Prime Minister Theresa Mays Brexit plan  and defeat is so widely expected that Mrs. May has been fighting not to avert a loss but to manage its magnitude.In that vein, the prime minister enlisted fresh assurances from Europes most senior officials and warned again of the dangers of a chaotic no deal withdrawal. She also tried to cajole hard-line Brexiteers to support her, even if they hate her plan.The vote could go down as a historically awful defeat. The vote is expected to take place on Tuesday evening in London._____5. Pacific Gas and Electric Company, the largest investor-owned utility in California, intends to file for bankruptcy protection by the end of the month, according to a regulatory filing.The utilitys equipment has been found responsible for many of the wildfires that killed scores in Northern California in 2017 and 2018. PG&E said it faced an estimated $30 billion liability, which would exceed its insurance and assets.PG&Es stock had already lost almost two-thirds of its value since its equipment was linked to last years Camp Fire, which destroyed thousands of homes in Paradise, Calif., and killed at least 86 people. Above, PG&E crews repair power lines destroyed by the Camp Fire.By Monday, the companys shares had fallen another 52 percent._____6. More than 30,000 public schoolteachers and employees went on strike in Los Angeles on Monday, with demands for higher pay, smaller classes and more support staff in the schools.The strike affects roughly 500,000 students at 900 schools in the Los Angeles Unified School District, the second-largest in the country. Schools remained open, staffed by substitutes, but many parents said they would not send their children across the picket lines.Teachers mounted large-scale strikes in six other strikes last year, but this one is different: Teachers are picketing their bosses, not politicians; the Los Angeles union is strong; and the district is trying to keep schools open. Well have updates throughout the strike._____7. Congress has never heard a voice like mine.Representative Deb Haaland, a Democrat representing New Mexico, is one of two Native American women elected to the 116th Congress, the first in history. From left, Representative Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, Representative Carol Miller of West Virginia, and Ms. Haaland.The 2018 midterm elections ushered in a change in representation. For the first time, more than 100 women serve in the House of Representatives  out of 435 seats  and members of color were elected in more states than ever before.We photographed nearly every woman in Congress, Republican and Democrat._____8. Details in the kidnapping of Jayme Closs and the killing of her parents have begun to emerge from court documents that lay out a horrifying narrative of a carefully planned and brutally executed crime.The man accused in the case, Jake Patterson, 21, told investigators he first saw her getting onto a school bus last fall and decided that was the girl he was going to take.He was arrested on Thursday, shortly after Jayme, 13, escaped and sought help. He was charged in a Wisconsin court on Monday with kidnapping, burglary and two counts of first-degree intentional homicide._____9. Serena Williams is back in Melbourne for the Australian Open, which she won in 2017 while pregnant.This time, the conversation around her threatens to overshadow the tournament itself. Her outbursts at the umpire at the U.S. Open four months ago propelled her to the forefront of debates about sports, gender, race and power.Ms. Williams plays Tatjana Maria of Germany in the first round of the Australian Open at 8:15 p.m. Eastern.Also at the Open: Andy Murray lost his first round match against Roberto Bautista Agut of Spain. And could this have been the tallest match in Grand Slam history?_____10. Finally, we end with a plea from the author Stephen King.The best-selling horror author from Bangor, Me., complained on Twitter that a local newspaper was cutting back on book reviews, which he said the states writers depended on to buy bread and milk.In response, The Portland Press Herald challenged him to bring in 100 new subscriptions  and said it would restore the reviews if he could. With help from his five million Twitter followers, he brought in more than twice that number.Its a Stephen King story with a happy ending, the papers publisher said.Have a thrilling night.Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And dont miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe Iowa Republican has been objectionable for years, but his party has historically been unwilling to do anything about its extremists. By Sam Rosenfeld and Daniel SchlozmanMr. Rosenfeld is the author of The Polarizers. Mr. Schlozman is the author of When Movements Anchor Parties.At first glance, the decision by congressional Republican leaders on Monday to strip Representative Steve King of his committee assignments for remarks last week defending white supremacy last week appears to be an example of the party stepping in to police its own extremists. But its actually the opposite.The condemnations of Mr. King, now in his ninth term in Congress, come only after years of ignoring his white-nationalist rhetoric  and address what is merely the tip of a vast iceberg.People took little notice when, over the weekend, President Trump approvingly cited a column from Pat Buchanan about the border wall that described the Democratic Party as hostile to white men.The presidents shout-out was a reminder that the Republican Partys dalliance with radicalism goes beyond his presidency and long predates it. For more than a half-century, two characteristics have defined what we term the Long New Right: a politics centered on mobilizing group resentment and conflict, and a determined refusal to police boundaries.By building an electoral coalition to give it power and winning factional battles to control its agenda, the Long New Right ultimately captured the Republican Party  and fatefully rendered it permeable to extremist forces it lacks either the will or ability to challenge.Unless party leaders draw and enforce meaningful boundaries and develop a more appealing economic agenda for the Republican rank-and-file, the party will continue its dance with extremists after Mr. Trump departs the scene.Todays Republican Party, both pro- and anti-Trump, tells a shared origin story: A remnant of conservative thinkers toiling in the wilderness of the postwar liberal consensus developed an ideological agenda blending traditional morality and free-market economics, popularized it in the pages of National Review, and inspired the movement to win Barry Goldwater the Republican presidential nomination in 1964 and, eventually, to put Ronald Reagan in the White House.Missing from this story is a key point: Postwar American conservatism was forged in battles over extremists. A formative fight for many movement founders concerned Senator Joe McCarthys reckless crusade against Communists. Before founding National Review, William F. Buckley, then in his 20s, was a co-author of a 1954 book that offered what might be called a full-throated anti-anti-McCarthy case. It separated McCarthy the flawed man from McCarthyism the worthy program of action against those in our land who help the enemy. On civil rights, Buckley would eschew even such anti-anti arguments in favor of openly defending Jim Crow.In the later 1950s and early 1960s, Buckleys circle of movement ideologists regularly intermingled with harder-edged actors. It was a world populated by conservative book clubs and advocacy groups, Bible-pounding anti-Communist crusaders and the secretive John Birch Society, with its tens of thousands of members and well-earned reputation for gonzo conspiracism. Contrary to movement myth, Buckley did not purge the Birchers from the movement in the 1960s. National Review articles in 1962 singled out the Birch Societys founder, Robert Welch, for personal condemnation while sparing ordinary members of his organization. (A more full-throated attack on the group followed three years later, but only after Goldwaters defeat.)Goldwater, too, criticized Welch personally  but went no further. His campaign was powered by best-selling tracts like Phyllis Schlaflys A Choice, Not an Echo, steeped in the Birchers baroquely paranoid style. A whos who of the hard right, including the anti-Semite Gerald L.K. Smith, enthusiastically supported his candidacy, and the campaign did little to disavow them. Even the party establishment that resisted Goldwaters nomination blanched at calling out extremism. A proposed platform plank at the convention denouncing extremism and explicitly naming the Birch Society failed to find support even from Dwight Eisenhower and George Romney. By the early 1980s, long into the Birch Societys decline, Republicans would feel less reason than ever to hide or apologize for engaging Birchers; the Societys magazine, The Review of the News, featured interviews with the likes of Dick Cheney and Chuck Grassley.The next generation of conservative movement activists, including Paul Weyrich (a key mentor of Newt Gingrich), Morton Blackwell and Richard Viguerie, adopted a more pugilistic approach that brought together radical and mainstream elements on the right. In the 1970s, they avoided traditional Republican small-government political appeals in favor of mobilizations over busing, abortion and gay rights while courting the segregationist George Wallaces followers and brokering a fateful alliance between Christian evangelicals and the Republican Party. The New Right formed think tanks, advocacy groups and political action committees to do the work they didnt trust the formal party to do. Parties are no more than instruments, temporary and disposable, declared the Maryland congressman Bob Bauman at 1975s Conservative Political Action Conference. This troublemaking activism irked party officials like Ronald Reagans first Republican National Committee chairman, Richard Richards, who called the outside groups loose cannonballs on the deck of a ship. But their approach eventually came to dominate, thanks to the expanding right-wing media ecosystem, primary voters, and direct-mail fund-raising dollars. The refusal to police boundaries evolved from an ethos to a structural feature of the political world built by the Long New Right.For decades, the Long New Right has depended on buy-in from moneyed interests within the Republican coalition. The grass-roots right may have disliked the plutocrats economic agenda, but they repeatedly accepted it to gain access to power. For their part, the plutocrats may have regarded the New Right as uncouth and their social agenda divisive, but they, too, preferred it to any available alternative. The Trump presidency, featuring fights over a wall with Mexico alongside corporate tax cuts, embodies this enduring bargain. Whatever President Trumps fate, as long as the core economic agenda of the partys funders remains unpopular, Republicans will have to stoke group resentment to win elections.While the party doesnt lack for proposals that would update its outdated, plutocrat-friendly agenda  see the books and proposals from Oren Cass, Henry Olsen and figures around the Niskanen Center, to name a few  changing this dynamic will not come easy, certainly not as easy as various Never Trumpers imagine. The hard, sustained political work in the trenches will require both meaningful shifts in the Republican Partys program, toward policies that speak to the material welfare of its constituents, and robust party organization with the means and the will to contain the fever swamps.In the long run, the danger on the right is not just Republicans problem, but all of ours. American democracy depends on the Grand Old Party learning to secure its own borders.Sam Rosenfeld, an assistant professor of political science at Colgate University, is the author of The Polarizers. Daniel Schlozman, an assistant professor of political science at Johns Hopkins University, is the author of When Movements Anchor Parties.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy The New York TimesPresident Nicols Maduro of Venezuela has been in a standoff for weeks with political opponents, who question the legitimacy of his election to a second term in office and are forcibly trying to bring tons of humanitarian aid into the country. The opposition, led by Juan Guaid  who drew international support when he declared himself Venezuelas interim president last month  began moving the supplies into Venezuela on Saturday. Getting the aid in would be a symbolic victory and signal Mr. Maduros loosening grip on power.The aid, including food and medicine, is desperately needed in Venezuela, where conditions have grown steadily worse in recent months. Inflation has skyrocketed, hunger is endemic, and hospitals are without medicine. More than three million people have fled the country, many on foot.We are updating our story on the clashes on the border. These are the highlights:President Maduro, speaking from the capital Caracas, severed diplomatic ties with Colombia and ordered the diplomats of the neighboring nation out of his country within the next 24 hours.Colombias President Ivan Duque has been an outspoken critic of Mr. Maduro and a close ally of the United States, and his country was the main staging point for the oppositions efforts to bring humanitarian aid across the border. Mr. Maduro danced the salsa with his wife on stage in an event that was broadcast on national television. Even as the National Guard clashed with protesters elsewhere in the country, he told Venezuelans, I am stronger than ever.He criticized the opposition and called Mr. Guaid a puppet of imperialism.Why am I here? Because you are the ones who decide, not Donald Trump, he said.Despite a handful of defections, the countrys National Guard has so far not deserted Mr. Maduro en masse as the opposition had hoped.   Ana Vanessa HerreroMr. Guaid, standing alongside the presidents of Paraguay, Colombia, and Chile urged the Venezuelan military to allow trucks to cross the border. The leaders are among more than 50 heads of government who support him as Venezuelas legitimate leader. The humanitarian aid is definitely on its way to Venezuela, in a peaceful manner, to save lives right now, Mr. Guaid said, standing in front of the warehouse on the Colombian side of the border, where the aid had been stored for days.Ive made a clear call to the armed forces. They are welcome to join the correct side of history, Mr. Guaid said.A short time later, a large crowd surrounded several aid trucks as they made their way toward the Venezuelan border at the Simn Bolvar International Bridge. They waved flags and chanted, Freedom, freedom.But a few hours later, the trucks turned back to the Colombian side of the border, chased away by tear gas fired from the Venezuelan side. The crowd walked back fairly obediently, looking a bit tired.We are optimistic, said Claudia Zarraga, a 40-year-old engineer. We knew this wouldnt be a fast process. Well keep trying.In San Antonio, a Venezuelan town across the Simn Bolvar bridge from Colombia where several opposition leaders had gathered, pro-government militia members drove around in motorcycles and cars, their faces covered in black masks, and fired into the air, scaring protesters. On the Tienditas bridge, which also links Venezuela and Colombia, the momentum that had built up as people gathered on both sides for rival concerts held by Mr. Maduro and the opposition had waned in the middle of the day Saturday.Some Venezuelans clambered on the shipping containers that block its lanes, painting Queremos Paz, or We Want Peace, on one of them. There were no soldiers visible as hundreds of people milled around, waiting in the hot sun to accompany the aid  which had not arrived. But soon, a vanguard of activists in blue berets and holding white flowers linked arms in a chain. In the sweltering heat, the flowers had started to wilt  but the music was blaring and the energy had picked up. No one can stop this from passing now, said Wilmer Azuaje, an opposition politician who was leading the crowd with a megaphone.In a video posted on social media, Mara Teresa Belandria, Mr. Guaids envoy in Brazil, said the opposition managed to get a truck with humanitarian aid across the border town of Pacaraima in northern Brazil shortly before 11 a.m.We did it, she said. This is a major victory. On the southern border with Brazil, the violence turned deadly. In Santa Elena de Uairn, the National Guard fired tear gas and live ammunition at civilians and charged against them in armed vehicles, said opposition lawmaker Amrico de Grazia. At least two protesters were killed in the clashes at the Brazilian border, hospital officials said. The crackdown is in reprisal for the triumphant entry of aid across the border with Brazil, he said. About 15 people were injured and taken to the hospital there. Nicholas Casey, Ernesto Londoo and Megan SpeciaJust after dawn in the Venezuelan border town of Urea, local residents defied the orders of the government and tried to storm a closed footbridge to Colombia, hoping to make way for humanitarian aid to pass. Members of the Venezuela National Guard fired tear gas on the group as some attempted to remove fencing and barriers blocking the bridge. The standoff between stone-throwing bare-chested youth, many with their faces covered, and lines of military police was reminiscent of waves of deadly anti-government protests that gripped the country in 2014 and 2017. A group of about 300 mostly female protesters, known as Women in White had gathered to march on the bridge to Colombia. Elsewhere in Urea, protesters stormed a school occupied by about 100 government militia members, mostly retirees, and forced them to surrender. Some joined the protesters. One militiamen was seriously injured after falling while trying to flee. Opposition leaders, who had planned an organized march, said this is not what they wanted. Some local residents agreed.This is not the way to do it, said Humberto Manrique, a Urea resident, as he watched masked youths burning tires and setting fire to buses in front of a National Guard cordon. The opposition leader, Mr. Guaid, posted on Twitter that several members of the National Guard assigned to the Simn Bolvar International Bridge that connects Venezuela and Colombia have joined the opposition. He posted a video showing three men wearing Venezuelan military police uniforms being escorted by a police officer on the Colombian side of the border.They have decided to stand on the side of the people and the Constitution! he wrote in another tweet. Welcome! The arrival of freedom and democracy to Venezuela is already unstoppable.A video posted later showed the four men detailing their reasons for defection before urging others to join them.We are fathers, we are sons, one of the men said. Weve had enough of so much uncertainty.  Anatoly Kurmanaev, Megan Specia and Juliana BarbassaSecurity forces on Friday fired on a group of indigenous Venezuelans, who were protesting near the border with Brazil against Mr. Maduros decision to block aid.At least two civilians were killed and more than a dozen wounded in the confrontation in the Gran Sabana area, according to Amrico de Grazia, an opposition lawmaker from the state of Bolvar. The Gran Sabana area is inhabited by the Pemn, an indigenous community.Ricardo Delgado, a Pemn leader, said the tensions that led to the confrontation began in the early morning when a military convoy tried to reach a checkpoint on the border as reinforcement. A group of indigenous protesters blocked their passage. The convoy left but later returned and the military began shooting at the protesters.  Ana Vanessa HerreroFor days, the humanitarian aid has been stockpiled on the Colombian side of the border with Venezuela, warehoused near a bridge in the major border town of Ccuta. The Venezuelan authorities have blocked lanes on the bridge with tanker trucks to prevent the aid from being brought across.Two competing concerts have added to the dramatic scene. On Friday morning, thousands of Venezuelans streamed across footbridges to Ccuta, to attend the opposition-supported Venezuela Live Aid concert organized by the billionaire Richard Branson. The event was aimed at raising money for food and medical supplies. The presidents of Colombia, Chile and Paraguay attended the concert, rallying support for the opposition and calling for an end to Mr. Maduros presidency. Maduro is part of the problem and not part of the solution, President Sebastin Piera of Chile told the crowd. Democracy is the solution for Venezuela. Meanwhile, Mr. Maduros government had plans for rival concerts over the weekend on the Venezuelan side of the border.  Anatoly Kurmanaev, Ana Vanessa Herrero and Nicholas CaseyAdvertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Isabella Grulln PazFrom the government shutdown to the start of a new Congress, its been a busy week in American politics. Here are some of the biggest stories you might have missed (and some links if youd like to read further).___________________Early in the week, House Democrats agreed on a proposal to end the partial government shutdown that would extend current levels of funding for the Department of Homeland Security, but that didnt include money for President Trumps border wall. Mr. Trump rejected the idea in a White House meeting on Wednesday, saying he would look foolish if he compromised.After the Democrats took control of the House on Thursday, they passed two bills to reopen the government, knowing they would likely go nowhere in the Senate. The majority leader, Senator Mitch McConnell, said he would not bring up any legislation Mr. Trump did not support. Few Republicans called for an end to the shutdown.On Friday, the president threatened to keep agencies closed for months or even years. Mr. Trump also said he was considering declaring a national emergency to build a border wall without congressional approval.As the president holds firm on the shutdown, he hasnt publicly addressed the 800,000 federal workers going without pay. The administration said it would freeze pay raises for Vice President Mike Pence and other high-level officials.Additional Reading Government Shutdown May Turn a Day in Court Into a Four-Year Wait Shutdown Leaves Workers Reeling: We Seem to Be Pawns  As Shutdown Persists, New Congress Opens With Celebration and UncertaintyThe 116th Congress was called to order on Thursday, with ebullient Democrats taking control of the House of Representatives and electing Nancy Pelosi as speaker.Ms. Pelosi is the first lawmaker to win two separate terms as speaker in more than half a century, cementing her place as the highest-ranking and most powerful female elected official in the history of American politics. To win back the gavel, the California representative had to put down a rebellion in her caucus  and there are still dissenters in her ranks.Wasting no time, House Democrats on Friday unveiled details of ambitious legislation devised to lower barriers to the ballot box and require presidents and candidates for the nations highest offices to release their tax returns. But their new agenda is being overshadowed by the shutdown.Additional Reading As House of Representatives Convenes, Theres One Empty Seat  Rashida Tlaibs Expletive-Laden Cry to Impeach Trump Upends Democrats Talking Points  In Orange County, a Republican Fortress Turns DemocraticSenator Elizabeth Warren, a sharp critic of big banks and unregulated capitalism, entered the 2020 race for president on Monday. Ms. Warren said she was forming a presidential exploratory committee, which allows her to raise money and hire staff before a formal kickoff.An unusually large number of Democrats may (or may not) be seeking the presidency. The question is: Who, if anyone, matches the political moment?As Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont ponders a second presidential run, complaints of sexual harassment and pay disparity by staff members on his 2016 campaign have started to circulate, possibly hindering his chances.We still dont know if Joe Biden will be a candidate. But with a series of careful financial decisions and the creation of nonprofits and academic centers, the former vice president has paved the way for a possible run.Additional Reading  How Early Do Presidential Campaigns Start? Earlier Than You May Think  Five Ways Elizabeth Warren (and Other 2020 Hopefuls) Will Campaign When Theres No Campaign Yet  Voting Issues and Gerrymanders Are Now Key Political Battlegrounds About 150 migrants who tried to enter the United States near San Diego were forced back by American border officers using tear gas. Now, Mexicos Foreign Ministry has asked for an investigation into the episode. Paul Whelan, an American citizen detained in Russia on espionage charges, is being held in solitary confinement in the notorious Lefortovo Prison in Moscow and could face a sentence of as much as 20 years. Heres more on Mr. Whelan, who also has British, Canadian and Irish citizenship. The Trump administration was said to be considering Jim Webb, a former Democratic senator and Reagan-era secretary of the Navy, to be the next defense secretary. Mr. Trump denied it in a tweet on Friday. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo warned Iran against launching three spacecraft in the coming months, arguing that they were a cover for testing missile technology. The Supreme Court agreed on Friday to take another look at whether the Constitution bars extreme partisan gerrymandering. Mr. Trump said he had essentially fired Defense Secretary Jim Mattis last month because he was dissatisfied with the retired Marine generals performance._____________________Todays On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grulln Paz in New York. Is there anything you think were missing? Anything you want to see more of? Wed love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin, Melina Delkic and Elijah Walker(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.) Good evening. Heres the latest.1. This is not a manufactured crisis. This is truly an emergency.Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security secretary, urged Congress to confront what she called a humanitarian catastrophe on the southern border by supporting President Trumps border wall, though it is not clear how a wall would alter the flow of asylum seekers or address their needs.She was also defiant in the face of criticism of how the administration treats migrant families at the border, especially separating families.Separately, in a setback for Mr. Trump, the U.S. trade deficit in goods ballooned to $891.3 billion in 2018, its highest level in history. The deficit expanded mainly because of the strong U.S. economy, which allowed Americans to purchase more from abroad, and the strong dollar, which raised the international prices of U.S. exports._____2. Senator Martha McSally, Republican of Arizona and the first woman in the Air Force to fly in combat, said that she had been raped by a superior officer while serving.She made the disclosure at a Senate committee hearing about preventing sexual assault in the military, above, saying that she had nearly left the service. I thought I was strong, but felt powerless, she said. She stayed, she said, to be a voice for women: Its personal from two perspectives  as a commander who led my airmen into combat and as a survivor of rape and betrayal.Also on Capitol Hill, House Democrats were accusing their partys leaders of treating Representative Ilhan Omar unfairly. They ultimately put off a vote on a resolution condemning anti-Semitism, as critics said Ms. Omar was unfairly singled out._____3. The Supreme Court is getting an education in rap.Hip-hop stars including Meek Mill, above, Fat Joe and 21 Savage filed a brief urging the court to hear the appeal of a Pittsburgh rapper challenging his conviction. The artist, Jamal Knox, who raps under the name Mayhem Mal, was sent to prison for two years for threatening police officers in his song.A person unfamiliar with what today is the nations most dominant musical genre or one who hears music through the auditory lens of older genres such as jazz, country or symphony, they wrote, may mistakenly interpret a rap song as a true threat of violence._____4. Mark Zuckerberg said he would shift Facebooks platforms to emphasize private, encrypted communication, a major turn from public sharing.After grappling with years of scandal over data privacy, the Facebook founder and chief executive said he wanted to create systems that would offer users a digital living room where they can expect their discussions to be fully private.In other tech news, Tesla is shutting down most of its dealerships  just three months after a sprint to open new locations._____5. Prime Minister Justin Trudeaus former top adviser and close friend tried to defuse a political scandal gripping Canada.In testimony before a parliamentary committee, the adviser, Gerald Butts, pictured above, denied that any improper pressure was put on the former justice minister to settle a criminal case. He said the government wanted to consider a negotiated settlement for a company accused of bribery because thousands of Canadian jobs were at stake.Mr. Buttss testimony may help mitigate the crisis, which has threatened the prime ministers political future. We broke down how Mr. Trudeau became ensnared._____6. The chef Mario Batali has surrendered his stake in all of his restaurants.Of all the famous chefs and restaurateurs accused of sexual harassment, Mr. Batali is the first to pay such a price.The Bastianich family, which has partnered with Mr. Batali for 20 years, and other partners are regrouping to form a new company. Mr. Batali is also selling his shares in Eataly, the global chain of luxury Italian supermarkets.In other #MeToo developments, R. Kelly gave his first interview since being charged with sexual abuse, in which he screamed, cursed and pleaded to the camera. He now is heading back to jail for not paying child support._____7. Good news and bad news in the fight to combat overprescription of opioid painkillers: Prescriptions fell. Chronic pain patients have suffered.In a letter to be sent to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, more than 300 medical experts, including three former White House drug czars, say that federal guidelines aimed at curbing addiction are harming pain patients who find relief only through high doses of opioids. Above, a doctor and a pain patient in Nebraska in 2016.They say the guidelines are being used as cover by insurers to deny reimbursement and by doctors to turn patients away, leaving them in withdrawal and in misery, some to the point of suicide._____8. Thousands of runners, wrestlers, pictured above, soccer players and fitness fanatics exercise every evening on the beaches and streets of Senegals capital, where exercise is a way of life.With every breath, they inhale increasingly dangerous air. Dakars air exceeds more than five times the limits set by the World Health Organization for levels of damaging airborne particulate. One official estimated that a third of the population has some kind of lung ailment.Sometimes it feels like Im about to get choked, one champion swimmer said._____9. A reverie, a meditation, a therapeutic retreat, a musicians playground.Our music critic offers a glowing review of Solanges new album, When I Get Home. The album is built for gentle, repeated immersion, not instant gratification, he writes, one example of Solanges step away from ordinary pop expectations.We also have a review of the latest installment of Captain Marvel, starring Brie Larson as the spacefaring comic-book superhero. It is the 21st entry in the interconnected Marvel movie franchise since it began in 2008, but the first to focus principally on a woman._____10. Finally, today is the first day of Lent for many Christians around the world.But before giving something up, residents in Hamtramck, Mich., have long celebrated Fat Tuesday with paczki, Polish pastries. Pronounced PAWN-chkee, the doughy pastries are filled with custard or fruit. Lines form well before sunrise at bakeries around the city. Above, the New Martha Washington Bakery on Tuesday.Residents see parallels in the stories of the Polish immigrants who came decades ago and those of the newer arrivals from the Middle East and Asia.I havent seen Hamtramcks identity really change in 100 years, the mayor said. Were an immigrant city.Have a sweet night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And dont miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe shutdown is painful, but it is also an opportunity for labor to take a stand.By Barbara Ehrenreich and Gary StevensonMs. Ehrenreich is the author of Nickel and Dimed and the founder of the Economic Hardship Reporting Project. Mr. Stevenson is a former labor organizer.Last week, in a meeting with Democratic leaders, President Trump called the government shutdown a strike. This was an enigmatic use of a hallowed term, although it might have simply been Mr. Trumps confusion about the blue flu epidemic afflicting employees of the Transportation Security Administration, who are working without pay and registering their protest by calling in sick, and in some cases quitting outright. Last Saturday, about 5.6 percent of the roughly 51,000 T.S.A. officers stayed home sick, the Federal Aviation Administration reported.In contrast to a strike, blue flu  a condition that has also been known to afflict police officers  is a quiet form of protest, with no stated principles or claim for public attention or sympathy. At the end of the day, each worker goes home and calculates his or her ability to go another week or two  or months or years, as the president has threatened  without a paycheck and acts accordingly.Since T.S.A. agents, who are among the most visible of the affected workers, make do on a starting wage of about $23,000 a year (with the possibility of going up to about $43,000), these can be hair-raising calculations: Skip the childrens dentist appointments and pay the electric company? Or try to get an extension on the utility bill and go without getting the car fixed?The question is what comes next. With no end in sight for the shutdown, should the T.S.A. workers continue this passive-aggressive form of protest? Or is there something more they can do, something that would turn their plight into a stand not just against the shutdown but also against the arbitrary and insulting way American workers are so often treated in general?T. S.A. workers should use last years teachers strikes as a model. They were called not by the leadership of the teachers unions but by the rank and file. It was a new kind of labor activism, starting at the bottom and depending heavily on community support. By sticking together and creating their own communication system, the teachers succeeded in sending a powerful message of solidarity and strength.A strike by T.S.A. agents, as federal workers, would be illegal, as was the wave of public-sector strikes in the 1960s and 70s. But this time is different, said Michael M. Oswalt, an associate professor of law at Northern Illinois University College of Law, who studies federal labor relations. A strike over involuntary work would raise not just novel legal issues but important and unprecedented questions about the value of public service and middle-class employment in our country, he said.The moral foundation for a strike is unquestionably firm. The federal government has broken its contract with its employees  locking some of them out of their workplaces and expecting others to work for the mere promise of eventual pay. An even more profound principle is also at stake, namely the ban on slavery and involuntary servitude embodied in the 13th Amendment to the Constitution.So what holds federal workers and their unions back from taking more dramatic and collective action? Partly, it is the ghost of Patco. In 1981, the Professional Air Traffic Controllers Organization struck over wages and working conditions, prompting President Ronald Reagan to fire 11,000 highly skilled workers, replacing them with military personnel. Patco was destroyed and unions in general retreated into a defensive crouch. Who wants to risk something like that again?It is also the unions themselves, which now hang back in fear of draining their treasuries and losing whatever influence they still have. In the case of the government shutdown, the relevant unions are focusing on bringing lawsuits against the federal government for, in effect, forcing employees to work without pay. But these suits would probably turn out to be a kind of stealth operation, something to read about years from now, once the courts decide.This is a moment of tremendous opportunity. An unpopular president has arbitrarily plunged nearly a million families into financial jeopardy and in some cases poverty. If airport workers, for example, declare a strike, they can expect to attract fervent community support. Even travelers who have a hard time believing that the key to air safety lies in their shoes or laptop are likely to listen to the federal inspectors who have been picketing major airports with signs asking: Was your airplane properly repaired and inspected today? The F.A.A. does not know!Whether rank-and-file action by T.S.A. workers and other federal employees would have the power of last years teachers strikes remains to be seen. How long would the public support it? And what about the business community, which depends so heavily on the smooth transfer of corporate travelers from one airport to another?All we know is that the shutdown continues without a break in sight. Government employees will continue to triage their bills. Food stamp recipients will remain in doubt over whether they will be able to eat in March. Government contractors will go wringing their hands.During his televised address last week, Mr. Trump countered these anxieties with a faux fear very far from peoples everyday concerns: the fear of murderers, rapists and drug pushers pouring in from south of the border. At some point, were going to have to reckon with our real problems, including the ones created by the president himself.The time has come for a genuine, old-fashioned strike, one with picket lines, chants, quickened pulses and the power to reignite the traditional fighting spirit of American labor.Barbara Ehrenreich is the author of Nickel and Dimed and the founder of the Economic Hardship Reporting Project. Gary Stevenson is a former organizer for the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and the American Federation of Teachers.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Trip Gabriel, Jonathan Martin and Nicholas FandosHouse Republican leaders removed Representative Steve King of Iowa from the Judiciary and Agriculture Committees on Monday night as party officials scrambled to appear tough on racism and contain damage from comments Mr. King made to The New York Times questioning why white supremacy is considered offensive.The punishment came on a day when Mr. King was denounced by an array of Republican leaders, though not President Trump. The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, suggested Mr. King find another line of work and Senator Mitt Romney said he should quit. And the House Republicans, in an attempt to be proactive, stripped him of the committee seats in the face of multiple Democratic resolutions to censure Mr. King that are being introduced this week.Those measures would force Republicans to take a stand on the House Democratic majoritys attempt to publicly reprimand one of their own.Mr. King, who has been an ally of President Trump on the border wall and other issues, has a long history of making racist remarks and insults about immigrants, but has not drawn rebukes from Republican leaders until recently. In November, top Iowa Republicans like Senator Charles E. Grassley endorsed Mr. King for re-election even after one House Republican official came out and denounced him as a white supremacist.[Steve King has a history of making racist remarks. Read them and more here.]But in an interview with The Times published last week, Mr. King said: White nationalist, white supremacist, Western civilization  how did that language become offensive?Speaking to reporters on Monday night after the House Republican leadership team acted, Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the minority leader, said he was not ruling out supporting a censure or reprimand resolution against Mr. King. He said the Republicans are not removing Mr. King from the G.O.P. House conference itself, so he can still attend its party meetings, and it was up to Iowans whether Mr. King should stay in office.This is not the first time weve heard these comments, Mr. McCarthy said of Mr. King, an acknowledgment of the racist language the congressman has used before. That is not the party of Lincoln and its definitely not American.Mr. McCarthy, who conferred privately with Mr. King for an hour before the vote, did not say why the most recent comments were a breaking point given Mr. Kings long public record of similar remarks. Maybe I did not see those, but I disagree with these.The full Republican conference must still technically ratify the leaders decision, but Mr. McCarthy presented the matter as closed.Mr. King remained defiant after losing his committee seats, releasing a long statement insisting that his comments in the Times article had been misunderstood. He said he had been referring only to western civilization when he asked how did that language become offensive, not white nationalist or white supremacist.Leader McCarthys decision to remove me from committees is a political decision that ignores the truth, he said.He said he told Mr. McCarthy, You have to do what you have to do and I will do what I have to do. He pledged to continue to point out the truth and serve his district for at least the next two years.The push to condemn Mr. King illustrated how alarmed senior Republicans are about the partys image just two months after they lost 40 House seats, most of them in suburban or diverse districts  including seven in Mr. McCarthys home state of California, where the G.O.P. is on the brink of extinction.The condemnations of Mr. King stood in stark contrast to the lawmakers willingness to tolerate President Trumps  frequent offensive and insensitive remarks about migrants, black people, Native Americans and other minorities.Just last week, the president used the Oval Office to unleash a blistering assault on undocumented immigrants, portraying them as criminals in a fashion that harked back to an earlier era of American politics but rarely heard from a president in modern times. And on Sunday night, Mr. Trump invoked the Wounded Knee massacre of hundreds of Native Americans as an attempt to joke about Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts.Im glad that they are finally taking action after all of these years of Steve King slandering immigrants and Hispanics, but the president of the United States is also doing that and he just said something about Elizabeth Warren a few evenings ago that was also racially ugly and we havent heard a word of condemnation from anyone in the Republican Party about that, said Representative Joaquin Castro, Democrat of Texas.[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]Congressional Republicans have continued to embrace the president and his hard-line immigration politics, averting their gaze from his inflammatory rhetoric out of fear their core voters will punish them if they stray from Mr. Trump.The president, when asked by reporters on Monday about Mr. Kings remarks, said, I havent been following it.Republicans are now trying to get ahead of a fast-moving political problem while the country is in the midst of a lengthy government shutdown over a border wall by President Trump, who in many ways patterned his immigration policies and rhetoric on those of Mr. King.Mr. McCarthy called a special meeting of the Republican Steering Committee to remove Mr. King from Judiciary  which has jurisdiction over immigration, voting rights and impeachment  and Agriculture, which is a prized committee for Iowans. Mr. King also lost his seat on the Small Business Committee. The steering committee vote was unanimous.While Republican officials quickly turned on Mr. King, the party also came in for criticism from the Senates lone black Republican, Senator Tim Scott of South Carolina. He noted that the G.O.P. has long remained silent in the face of racist comments.Some in our party wonder why Republicans are constantly accused of racism  it is because of our silence when things like this are said, Mr. Scott wrote in a Washington Post opinion column.It is not clear what, if any, additional steps congressional Republican leaders will take with Mr. King. The National Republican Congressional Committee indicated Monday that they were not ready to step away from him.The N.R.C.C. does not get involved in primaries and isnt going to comment on a hypothetical general election two years away, said Chris Pack, a spokesman for the House campaign arm.Democrats are moving to censure or reprimand the Iowa congressman, a stinging penalty. Among them were Representative James Clyburn of South Carolina, the highest ranking African-American in Congress, who introduced a measure Monday night in the form of a resolution of disapproval of Mr. Kings comments and white nationalism.Democratic leaders in the House have yet to say what they will do with the competing censure resolutions, but are inclined to allow a vote of some sort related to Mr. Kings remarks, according to one senior Democratic aide.In the interview with The Times, Mr. King also reflected on the record number of minorities and women in the new Democratic-controlled House. You could look over there and think the Democratic Party is no country for white men, he said.Mr. Kings hard-line immigration policies and demeaning comments about Hispanics foreshadowed Mr. Trumps nativist rhetoric in his 2016 campaign, in his two years in the White House and during the government shutdown over a border wall. The president once boasted to Mr. King that he raised more money for him than anyone else, Mr. King recalled in the Times article, which traced how the Iowa congressman helped write the playbook for white identity politics that dominate the Republican Party under Mr. Trump.He has already drawn one serious primary opponent, state senator Randy Feenstra, for the 2020 campaign and some high-profile Republicans have indicated they will not embrace his re-election.It does open the door for other individuals to take a look, Gov. Kim Reynolds of Iowa said in a television interview last week of Mr. Kings closer-than-expected victory last year.Ms. Reynolds said she was staying out of the primary right now, but multiple Iowa Republicans said the states senior elected officials were unlikely to endorse Mr. King again and would wait until there is more clarity in the primary field before rallying to one of his G.O.P. challengers. Other Western Iowa Republicans are expected to challenge Mr. King, who has fended off primaries before but did so with the support of his party and its top leaders.In addition to Ms. Reynoldss criticism, Iowa Republican chair Jeff Kaufmann said the state party would remain neutral in Mr. Kings primary.Also, Iowas two Republican senators, Mr. Grassley and Joni Ernst, along with Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, who had appointed Mr. King a co-chairman of his 2016 presidential campaign, all rebuked Mr. King in recent days.All had eagerly embraced him in the past because of his standing with the states most conservative voters  keys to winning statewide elections in Iowa, which holds the first-in-the-nation presidential nominating contest.Mr. Grassley had endorsed Mr. King in November for re-election, even after the chairman of the House Republican election committee denounced Mr. King as a white supremacist.Iowa needs Steve King in Congress, Mr. Grassley said in that endorsement. I also need Steve King in Congress.Ms. Ernst, who faces re-election in 2020, appeared with Mr. King at a rally in his district the Monday before Election Day last year, after he had endorsed a Toronto mayoral candidate with neo-Nazi ties.Trip Gabriel reported from New York and Jonathan Martin and Nicholas Fandos from Washington.OpinionFrank BruniAdvertisement"
"Sophisticated surveillance, once the domain of world powers, is increasingly available on the private market. Smaller countries are seizing on the tools  sometimes for darker purposes.NSO, a private company based in Herzliya, Israel, has hired former government hackers to ply their trades for foreign governments.CreditCreditCorinna Kern for The New York TimesSupported byBy Mark Mazzetti, Adam Goldman, Ronen Bergman and Nicole PerlrothThe man in charge of Saudi Arabias ruthless campaign to stifle dissent went searching for ways to spy on people he saw as threats to the kingdom. He knew where to go: a secretive Israeli company offering technology developed by former intelligence operatives.It was late 2017 and Saud al-Qahtani  then a top adviser to Saudi Arabias powerful crown prince  was tracking Saudi dissidents around the world, part of his extensive surveillance efforts that ultimately led to the killing of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi. In messages exchanged with employees from the company, NSO Group, Mr. al-Qahtani spoke of grand plans to use its surveillance tools throughout the Middle East and Europe, like Turkey and Qatar or France and Britain.The Saudi governments reliance on a firm from Israel, an adversary for decades, offers a glimpse of a new age of digital warfare governed by few rules and of a growing economy, now valued at $12 billion, of spies for hire.Today even the smallest countries can buy digital espionage services, enabling them to conduct sophisticated operations like electronic eavesdropping or influence campaigns that were once the preserve of major powers like the United States and Russia. Corporations that want to scrutinize competitors secrets, or a wealthy individual with a beef against a rival, can also command intelligence operations for a price, akin to purchasing off-the-shelf elements of the National Security Agency or the Mossad.[For more stories about the changing nature of warfare, sign up for the weekly At War newsletter.]NSO and a competitor, the Emirati firm DarkMatter, exemplify the proliferation of privatized spying. A monthslong examination by The New York Times, based on interviews with current and former hackers for governments and private companies and others as well as a review of documents, uncovered secret skirmishes in this burgeoning world of digital combat.The firms have enabled governments not only to hack criminal elements like terrorist groups and drug cartels but also in some cases to act on darker impulses, targeting activists and journalists. Hackers trained by United States spy agencies caught American businesspeople and human rights workers in their net. Cybermercenaries working for DarkMatter turned a prosaic household item, a baby monitor, into a spy device.The F.B.I. is investigating current and former American employees of DarkMatter for possible cybercrimes, according to four people familiar with the investigation. The inquiry intensified after a former N.S.A. hacker working for the company grew concerned about its activities and contacted the F.B.I., Reuters reported.NSO and DarkMatter also compete fiercely with each other, paying handsomely to lure top hacking talent from Israel, the United States and other countries, and sometimes pilfering recruits from each other, The Times found.The Middle East is the epicenter of this new era of privatized spying. Besides DarkMatter and NSO, there is Black Cube, a private company run by former Mossad and Israeli military intelligence operatives that gained notoriety after Harvey Weinstein, the disgraced Hollywood mogul, hired it to dig up dirt on his accusers. Psy-Group, an Israeli company specializing in social media manipulation, worked for Russian oligarchs and in 2016 pitched the Trump campaign on a plan to build an online army of bots and avatars to swing Republican delegate votes.Last year, a wealthy American businessman, Elliott Broidy, sued the government of Qatar and a New York firm run by a former C.I.A. officer, Global Risk Advisors, for what he said was a sophisticated breach of his company that led to thousands of his emails spilling into public. Mr. Broidy said that the operation was motivated by hard-nosed geopolitics: At the beginning of the Trump administration, he had pushed the White House to adopt anti-Qatar policies at the same time his firm was poised to receive hundreds of millions of dollars in contracts from the United Arab Emirates, the archrival to Qatar.A judge dismissed Mr. Broidys lawsuit, but suspicions have grown that Qatar had a hand in other operations, including the hacking and leaking of the emails of Yousef al-Otaiba, the influential Emirati ambassador in Washington.The rapid expansion of this global high-tech battleground, where armies of cybermercenaries clash, has prompted warnings of a dangerous and chaotic future.Even the smallest country, on a very low budget, can have an offensive capability, or initiate online attacks against adversaries, said Robert Johnston, founder of the cybersecurity firm Adlumin and a key investigator on Russias 2016 hacking of the Democratic National Committee. Qatar and U.A.E. are going after each other, and that war is getting very, very bloody.The barriers to entry in this space are getting lower and lower.Before NSO helped the Saudi government track its adversaries outside the kingdom, and helped the Mexican government hunt drug kingpins, and earned hundreds of millions of dollars working for dozens of countries on six continents, the company consisted of two high school friends in northern Israel with one relatively mundane idea.Using technology developed by graduates of Intelligence Unit 8200  Israels equivalent of the N.S.A. Shalev Hulio and Omri Lavie started a company in 2008 that allowed cellphone firms to gain remote access to their customers devices to perform maintenance.Word spread to Western spy services, whose operatives spotted an opportunity. At the time, American and European officials were warning that Apple, Facebook, Google and other tech giants were developing technologies that allowed criminals and terrorists to communicate through encrypted channels indecipherable to intelligence and law enforcement agencies. They called the phenomenon going dark.Mr. Hulio and Mr. Lavie offered a way to circumvent this problem by hacking the end points of the communications  the phones themselves  after the data were decrypted.By 2011, NSO had developed its first prototype, a mobile surveillance tool the company called Pegasus. Like its namesake, the Greek mythological winged horse, NSOs tool could do something seemingly impossible: collect vast amounts of previously inaccessible data from smartphones in the air without leaving a trace  including phone calls, texts, emails, contacts, location and any data transmitted over apps like Facebook, WhatsApp and Skype.Once these companies invade your phone, they own it. Youre just carrying it around, Avi Rosen of Kaymera Technologies, an Israeli cyberdefense company, said of NSO and its competitors.The company soon had its first client for Pegasus: the government of Mexico, which was engaged in a crackdown on drug cartels. By 2013, NSO had installed Pegasus at three Mexican agencies, according to emails obtained by The Times. The emails estimated that, altogether, the firm had sold the Mexican government $15 million worth of hardware and software. Mexico was paying the firm some $77 million to track a wide array of targets every move and swipe of their phone.NSO products were important to Mexicos war against the cartels, according to four people familiar with how the Mexican government used Pegasus, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss intelligence matters. Mexican officials have credited Pegasus as instrumental in helping track and capture El Chapo, the famed drug kingpin who was convicted last month in New York and sentenced to life in a maximum-security prison.Soon enough, NSO was selling to governments throughout the world, with the company claiming clients on every continent except Antarctica. NSO products  particularly Pegasus  helped break up terrorist cells and aided investigations into organized crime and child abduction, European intelligence and law enforcement officials said in interviews.NSOs first client, the Mexican government, was also using the hacking tools for darker purposes  as part of a broader government and industry surveillance effort. The government used NSO products to track at least two dozen journalists, government critics, international investigators looking into the unsolved disappearance of 43 students, even backers of a soda tax, according to Times investigations and research by Citizen Lab, part of the University of Toronto.Those targets were subjected to a stream of harassing text messages that contained malware. Some messages warned that their spouses were having affairs, others that a relative had passed away. In one case, when government officials were not able to infiltrate the phone of a journalist, they targeted her 16-year-old sons.Though NSO says it sells its services for criminal and antiterrorism investigations, none of the Mexicans known to have been targeted were suspected in criminal or terrorism investigations.NSO technology has helped stop vicious crimes and deadly terrorist attacks around the world, the company said in a statement. We do not tolerate misuse of our products and we regularly vet and review our contracts to ensure they are not being used for anything other than the prevention or investigation of terrorism and crime.The company has established an ethics committee, which decides whether it can sell its spyware to countries based on their human rights records as reported by global organizations like the World Banks human capital index, and other indicators. NSO would not sell to Turkey, for example, because of its poor record on human rights, current and former employees said.But on the World Bank index, Turkey ranks higher than Mexico and Saudi Arabia, both NSO clients. A spokesman for Israels Ministry of Defense, which needs to authorize any contract that NSO wins from a foreign government, declined to answer questions about the company.A lawsuit alleged  last year that in the months before his death, Saudi Arabia used NSO products to spy on Mr. Khashoggi, the Washington Post columnist strangled and dismembered in October by Saudi operatives inside the kingdoms consulate in Istanbul. NSO denies the accusation. Several of Mr. Khashoggis closest contacts were targets of NSO hacking tools, Citizen Lab reported. Without access to Mr. Khashoggis devices, researchers have not confirmed whether he was a direct target of NSO surveillance.Even in cases of blatant abuse, NSO continued to renew contracts with its government clients. In 2013, for instance, NSO inked its first deal with the United Arab Emirates. Within a year, the Emirati government was caught installing NSO spyware on the mobile phone of Ahmed Mansoor, a prominent human rights activist.After receiving an onslaught of text messages containing links, Mr. Mansoor  a frequent target of Emirati surveillance  grew suspicious and passed the texts to security researchers, who determined the links were NSO lures that exploited vulnerabilities in Apple software to take over Mr. Mansoors phone. It was, researchers said, the most sophisticated spyware they had ever uncovered on a mobile device.The discovery forced Apple to release an emergency patch. But by then, Mr. Mansoor had already been fired from his job, had his passport confiscated, his car stolen, his email hacked, his location tracked, his bank account emptied of $140,000, and was beaten by strangers twice in the same week.You start to believe your every move is watched. Your family starts to panic, he said in an interview before he was arrested in 2017. I have to live with that.Even after the U.A.E. was caught spying on Mr. Mansoor, leaked invoices showed that NSO continued to sell the Emiratis millions of dollars worth of spyware and services. As for Mr. Mansoor, he was sentenced to 10 years in prison for damaging national unity and is being held in solitary confinement, where his health is deteriorating.A flurry of news reports followed about countries using NSO products to spy on their citizens, prompting the company to temporarily rebrand itself Q, after James Bonds gadget guru.Despite the bad news coverage, NSOs value continued to skyrocket.Francisco Partners, a private equity firm, purchased a 70 percent stake in NSO for $130 million in 2013. Last month, NSOs co-founders raised enough money to buy back a majority stake in NSO at a valuation of just under $1 billion. The London private equity firm Novalpina Capital backed the deal  making its major investors, including the Oregon state employees pension fund and Alaskas sovereign wealth fund, part owners of NSO, according to public records.The proliferation of companies trying to replicate NSOs success and compete in an estimated $12 billion market for so-called lawful intercept spyware has set off a fierce competition to hire American, Israeli and Russian veterans of the worlds most sophisticated intelligence agencies  and for the companies to poach talent from one another.In late 2017, NSO executives grew concerned about a spate of resignations. Private detectives hired to investigate soon found themselves on the Mediterranean island of Cyprus, tailing a group of former NSO employees  all veterans of Israels Intelligence Unit 8200  going back and forth to work at a research facility.The building was owned by a company affiliated with DarkMatter, an Emirati firm that had quietly hired the Israelis to develop technologies for the U.A.E. to conduct cyberoperations against perceived enemies at home and abroad.DarkMatter also has offices inside a gleaming tower on the highway connecting Abu Dhabi to Dubai, the same building that houses the U.A.E.s Signals Intelligence Agency, the Emirates version of the N.S.A.This is not by accident. DarkMatter is effectively an arm of the state that has worked directly with Emirati intelligence operatives on numerous missions such as hacking government ministries in Turkey, Qatar and Iran and spying on dissidents inside the Emirates.DarkMatter has origins in another company, an American firm called CyberPoint that years ago won contracts from the U.A.E. to help protect the Emirates from computer attacks. CyberPoint obtained a license from the American government to work for the Emiratis, a necessary step intended to regulate the export of military and intelligence services. Many of the companys employees had worked on highly classified projects for the N.S.A. and other American intelligence agencies.But the Emiratis had outsize ambitions and repeatedly pushed CyberPoint employees to exceed the boundaries of the companys American license. CyberPoint rebuffed requests by Emirati intelligence operatives to try to crack encryption codes and to hack websites housed on American servers  operations that would have run afoul of American law.So in 2015 the Emiratis founded DarkMatter  forming a company not bound by United States law  and lured at least a half-dozen American employees of CyberPoint to join. Marc Baier, a former official with the N.S.A. unit that carries out advanced offensive cyberoperations, became one of the firms top executives.DarkMatter employed several other former N.S.A. and C.I.A. officers, according to a roster of employees obtained by The Times, some making salaries of hundreds of thousands of dollars a year.The assumption used to be that when you left the N.S.A., youd never do that kind of offensive work again. Now, clearly there is a market for it, said Mr. Johnston, the security expert. He worked in the militarys Cyber Command, which works closely with the N.S.A., while serving in the Marines.The N.S.A. should consider it their responsibility to ensure that the hacking techniques taught to employees cannot be used against the United States, he said.The company did not respond to a request to comment, nor did a spokesman for the Emirati government. Asked whether the ministry had given a license for the former Israeli intelligence operatives working for DarkMatter, a spokesman for the Israeli Ministry of Defense declined to comment. A lawyer for Mr. Baier also declined to comment.Current and former employees of the spy agency have a lifelong obligation to protect the United States secrets, said Greg Julian, a spokesman for the N.S.A. They are also required to report employment or representation with foreign governments for two years after they leave the agency, he said.Besides its breaches of foreign government ministries, DarkMatter also broke into Gmail, Yahoo and Hotmail accounts, according to former employees. DarkMatter operatives posed as family and friends of the people they targeted to lure them into opening emails that contained malware.Former employees said that DarkMatter targeted Mr. Mansoor, hacking his childs baby monitor to eavesdrop on his family. In another operation, the companys operatives pursued Rori Donaghy, a British activist critical of the Emirati government and its human rights record, who had also been a target of NSO spyware. DarkMatter also targeted Citizen Lab, the Canadian research organization, a former employee said.DarkMatter told the employees that spying on American citizens would be off limits, but it proved to be an empty pledge.In one operation, not previously reported, a DarkMatter subsidiary began an expansive effort to intercept cellular communications in Qatar, occasionally catching communications of Americans in the surveillance net in late 2015. One American working on the project said he raised concerns with his superiors, including a former C.I.A. officer in charge of the effort. The American, along with another, was pulled off the project and asked to sign a nondisclosure agreement.In repeated instances, DarkMatter collected information about Americans, a second former employee said. Most of those cases involved Americans who worked for foreign organizations  including human rights groups  that DarkMatter targeted because they had been critical of the Emirati government, the former employee said.DarkMatter operatives would occasionally collect passport information, applications or rsums belonging to Americans who applied to work at these organizations. One former employee said that the collection was accidental, and the records were expunged from the companys databases.In 2017, a former N.S.A. hacker began providing F.B.I. agents with information about the companys activities, according to the Reuters report. Foreign Policy first reported the F.B.I. investigation.The informant, Lori Stroud, said she had become concerned about the companys surveillance of Americans. She later left the firm along with several other Americans because they could not be sure that DarkMatter was not deliberately targeting citizens. Soon, F.B.I. agents began stopping American employees at airports as they entered the United States and questioned them about DarkMatters operations, according to former company employees.The Justice Departments case, run by prosecutors in Washington, focuses on internet fraud and the possibly illegal transfer of spying technology to a foreign country.But the prosecutors face headwinds, including diplomatic concerns about jeopardizing the United States relationship with the U.A.E.  an influential country that has developed close ties to the Trump administration  and worries about how pursuing the case could expose embarrassing details about the extent of the cooperation between DarkMatter and American intelligence agencies.And there is the reality that American laws governing this new age of digital warfare are murky, outdated, and ill-equipped to address rapid technological advances. The rules governing what American intelligence and military personnel can and cannot provide to foreign governments were meant to keep a leash on 20th-century warfare  selling missiles or planes overseas or training foreign forces on Army tactics.But they do not address hacking skills that can be honed in front of a laptop, or at the worlds most advanced intelligence agencies, and sold to the highest bidder.The worst part of it is the weapons are easier to get, said Brian Bartholomew, the principal security researcher at Kaspersky Lab, a digital security company.Youve got a lot of people entering the arena that are new and dont play by the same rules, he said. Its like putting a military-grade weapon in the hands of someone off the street.An earlier version of this article misattributed the source of a valuation for the market of so-called lawful intercept spyware. The $12 billion market estimate cited by Moodys originated from the company NSO, not Moodys.Scott Shane contributed reporting.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Eric Schmitt and Mark LandlerWASHINGTON  Senior Pentagon officials are voicing deepening fears that President Trumps hawkish national security adviser, John R. Bolton, could precipitate a conflict with Iran at a time when Mr. Trump is losing leverage in the Middle East by pulling out American troops.At Mr. Boltons direction, the National Security Council asked the Pentagon last year to provide the White House with military options to strike Iran, Defense Department and senior American officials said on Sunday.The request, which alarmed then-Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and other Pentagon officials, came after Iranian-backed militants fired three mortars or rockets into an empty lot on the grounds of the United States Embassy in Baghdad in September.In response to Mr. Boltons request, which The Wall Street Journal first reported, the Pentagon offered some general options, including a cross-border airstrike on an Iranian military facility that would have been mostly symbolic. But Mr. Mattis and other military leaders adamantly opposed retaliating, arguing that the attack was insignificant  a position that ultimately won out, these officials said.Such a strike could have caused an armed conflict and could have prompted Iraq to order the United States to leave the country, said a senior American official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal policy deliberations.Since Mr. Bolton took over from H.R. McMaster in April, he has intensified the administrations policy of isolating and pressuring Iran  reflecting an animus against Irans leaders that dates back to his days as an official in the George W. Bush administration. As a private citizen, he later called for military strikes on Iran, as well as regime change.Mr. Bolton has made headway on some issues, like persuading Mr. Trump to withdraw from the Iran nuclear deal, but has had less success with others, like maintaining an American military presence in northeastern Syria to counter Iranian influence  something Mr. Bolton vowed to do only weeks before the president announced in December that he was pulling out.In asking for military options, a senior administration official said, Mr. Bolton was merely doing his job as national security adviser. He pointed out that the Iranian-backed militants also targeted the American Consulate in Basra.The N.S.C. coordinates policy and provides the president with options to anticipate and respond to a variety of threats, said a spokesman for the National Security Council, Garrett Marquis.Mr. Bolton, 70, is not the only Iran hawk in Mr. Trumps circle of top advisers. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo declared in a speech at the American University in Cairo last week that countries increasingly understand that we must confront the ayatollahs, not coddle them.Earlier this month, he warned Iran against launching three spacecraft, describing them as a pretext for testing missile technology that is necessary to carry a warhead to the United States and other nations. His statement appeared aimed at building a legal case for diplomatic, military or covert action against the Iranian missile program.It was surprising because Iran has used these modest space missions, mostly to deploy satellites, since 2005. The senior American official said that the Pentagon and the intelligence agencies disagreed with Mr. Pompeos interpretation of the threat posed by the satellite launches.Speaking on Sunday on CBSs Face the Nation during a visit to Abu Dhabi, in the United Arab Emirates, Mr. Pompeo discounted the argument that Mr. Trumps decision to withdraw 2,000 American troops from Syria in the coming months undercuts Washingtons ability to achieve its other goals in the region.That certainly includes in Syria, he said. It certainly includes into Iran, if need be.But Mr. Pompeo also opposed the idea of an airstrike on Iran after its attack on the embassy, according to a former senior administration official. On Sunday, he declined to comment about The Journals report. On each stop of his Middle East trip, Mr. Pompeo, a former Army officer, has spoken of the need to counter Iran, but has not talked of military action.When Mr. McMaster, then a three-star Army general, took over as national security adviser in early 2017, he ordered a new overall war plan for Iran. Mr. Mattis, who is himself an Iran hawk from his days as a Marine Corps commander in the region, delivered options. But those plans were not for the kind of pinpoint strikes that Mr. Bolton envisioned after the attack on the American Embassy on Sept. 6.On the Sunday following the attack, the senior American official said, Mr. Boltons deputy at the time, Mira Ricardel, convened an emergency meeting of national security aides to Mr. Trump, called a deputies committee meeting, and asked for retaliatory options.On Sept. 11, the White House said in a statement, The United States will hold the regime in Tehran accountable for any attack that results in injury to our personnel or damage to United States government facilities. America will respond swiftly and decisively in defense of American lives.What happened next illustrates Mr. Boltons management style. As the presidents national security adviser, he has largely eliminated the internal policy debates that could air high-level disagreements.Mr. Bolton does not want to hear opposing views, these officials said, abhors leaks and wants to control everything that flows to the president. But the result is that there is not much consideration of options and, more important, the risk of escalation, according to these people.The Pentagon declined to comment on Mr. Boltons request for military options, saying in a statement, The Department of Defense is a planning organization and provides the president military options for a variety of threats; routinely reviewing and updating plans and activities to deal with a host of threats, including those posed by Iran, to deter and, if necessary, to respond to aggression.A senior administration official said the United States would continue to pursue the withdrawal of Iranian-backed forces from Syria and a political solution in that country. He said the United States was leaving a contingent of American troops at the Al Tanf base in south-central Syria, as a deterrent to Iranian movements in that region.The past few days have been turbulent for Mr. Bolton. He traveled to Turkey to present a list of conditions for the Syria withdrawal, including a pledge by the Turks not to attack Americas Kurdish allies in Syria. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan rejected that demand and refused to see Mr. Bolton.On Sunday, Mr. Trump backed up his national security adviser, declaring on Twitter that the United States would devastate Turkey economically if they hit Kurds.With Mr. Pompeo overseeing the nuclear negotiations with North Korea and taking a prominent role on China policy, Mr. Bolton has made Iran the heart of his focus as national security adviser. He scored an early victory when Mr. Trump withdrew from the nuclear deal negotiated by his predecessor, Barack Obama.Mr. McMaster, backed by Mr. Mattis and former Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson, had talked Mr. Trump out of withdrawing from the deal on multiple occasions. Even Mr. Pompeo tried to salvage the deal with the Europeans in the days before the presidents decision.In March 2015, when Mr. Obama was negotiating the agreement, Mr. Bolton called for a military strike on Iran, writing in The New York Times that diplomacy would never prevent it from acquiring nuclear weapons.The inconvenient truth is that only military action like Israels 1981 attack on Saddam Husseins Osirak reactor in Iraq or its 2007 destruction of a Syrian reactor, designed and built by North Korea, can accomplish what is required, Mr. Bolton wrote. Time is terribly short, but a strike can still succeed.Before he joined the Trump administration, Mr. Bolton advocated the overthrow of the mullahs regime in Tehran. Once in office, he told Voice of America that leadership change was not the objective of the administration.The news of Mr. Boltons effort to find a way to strike back at Iran comes as evidence is rising that Tehran is considering  or at least threatening  to leave the nuclear agreement.The chief of Irans nuclear program, Ali Akbar Salehi, an M.I.T.-educated physicist who helped negotiate the deal, said on Sunday that Tehran had begun preliminary activities for designing a process for enrichment of uranium.The actual enrichment  which he said would be at 20 percent purity, just short of being sufficient to build a nuclear weapon  would violate the accord. Under its provisions, Iran could not enrich uranium at any significant quantities until 2030.But the Iranian government has been under pressure to respond to Mr. Trumps withdrawal and the reimposition of sanctions by the United States. European powers have been urging Iran not to leave the deal, fearing it would give the United States an excuse for military action.Mr. Salehi did not say what the preliminary activities were, or give a timetable for action. But he said the country wanted to produce modern fuel for its Tehran Research Reactor, a small, aging reactor that was given to it, during the shahs reign, by the United States.David E. Sanger contributed reporting from Washington, Edward Wong from Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Hiroko Masuike(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.) Good evening. Heres the latest.1. President Trump took his case for a wall to El Paso, where there is one.His rally was his first event along the border since a debate over funding a wall shut down the government. Negotiations to head off another shutdown appeared to be close to succeeding on Monday night.In a twist of political theater, Beto ORourke, below, a former Democratic congressman from El Paso and possible presidential candidate, spoke at a rally less than a mile from Mr. Trumps.Ahead of the events, people across the political spectrum in El Paso had a message for the president: Dont speak for us._____2. Anti-Semitism is real and I am grateful for Jewish allies and colleagues who are educating me on the painful history of anti-Semitic tropes.That was Representative Ilhan Omar, a freshman congresswoman from Minnesota, seen above two weeks ago. She had come under fire from Speaker Nancy Pelosi and the entire House Democratic leadership for insinuating on Twitter that American support for Israel was fueled by money from a pro-Israel lobbying group.She did not back away from her contention that the lobbying group, the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, has too much power in Washington. At the same time, I reaffirm the problematic role of lobbyists in our politics, whether it be AIPAC, the NRA or the fossil fuel industry, her statement said._____3. A Virginia Democrats push to begin impeachment proceedings against Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax stalled after furious opposition from the partys black caucus.They insist there not be a rush to oust Mr. Fairfax, who is black, over accusations of sexual assault while the states white governor and attorney general are refusing to resign after they admitted wearing blackface in their youth.Mr. Fairfax entered the legislative building around 11:30 a.m. this morning, made his way to the Senate chambers through a scrum of TV cameras, repeated that he had called for an independent investigation, adding: I am still very confident in the truth. And went to work, above._____4. Shrill, abrasive, aloof, unlikable.Some of the adjectives used to describe Hillary Clinton during her 2016 presidential campaign are now bubbling up in uncharted territory: a presidential race featuring six women running for the Democratic nomination.Few people admit they would hesitate to vote for a woman for president, but they dont have to. We took a look at how sexism plays out on the campaign trail.And we have closer looks at two senators among the six: Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, above, who joined the race Sunday, and Kamala Harris, whose record as a former district attorney and California attorney general faces a chorus of critics  especially on the left._____5. Assisting the doctor: A.I. In a new study, researchers from universities in the U.S. and China built a highly accurate system that could automatically diagnose common childhood conditions  including influenza and meningitis  after analyzing the patients symptoms, medical records, lab results and other clinical data.The system used a neural network, a breed of artificial intelligence, to digest the electronic health records from more than 1.3 million patient visits at a pediatric hospital in China. Above, doctors competed against A.I. computers to recognize illnesses during a competition in Beijing last year.Able to recognize patterns in data that humans could never identify on their own  and might not be able to understand  A.I. could assist doctors in diagnosing complex conditions, potentially transforming the health care industry and reducing the chances of misdiagnoses.In other A.I. news, President Trump signed an executive order meant to spur the development and regulation of artificial intelligence._____6. Brandi Carlile gave a thrilling performance. Drake showed up (though his acceptance speech got cut off). Alicia Keys was a laid-back host (and deftly played two pianos at once).We rounded up the best and worst of the Grammys, according to our music critics. At a ceremony dominated by female performers and presenters, Kacey Musgraves won album of the year for Golden Hour, as well as three other awards. Cardi B, above, became the first woman to win best rap album as a solo artist for Invasion of Privacy. Heres the complete list of winners.From Cardi B on the half shell to Michelle Obama in a silver lounge suit and a barefoot Alicia Keys, women were front and center, our fashion critic writes. (The embedded slide show has all the red carpet looks.)This years award ceremony was perhaps as notable for who didnt show up as who did, our pop music critic suggests._____7. The accusations against scar Arias Snchez, a former president of Costa Rica and Nobel laureate, are mounting. Above, Mr. Arias last month.Yazmn Morales is one of at least nine women who have now come forward with accounts of sexual assault or misconduct.Telling her story was hard. Finding a lawyer to take the case was harder, revealing the social and political obstacles facing women in the region when they seek legal recourse, even in Latin Americas most significant #MeToo case.And our Interpreter column examines why the movement has made little headway in curbing abuses by ordinary men._____8. For New Yorkers who hate the subway, and anyone who likes to hate New York, this ones for you.A portrait of subway hell in words and images, drawn from commuters tweets.Accessibility is a key issue. There are 550,000 New York residents who have difficulty walking. Our analysis found that two-thirds of them live far from an accessible subway station.And from Tokyo to Zurich, readers told us how New Yorks subway compares with the public transportation in their cities (spoiler alert: not well)._____9. Its almost like heavenly visual music.Thats Trond Trondsen of Calgary, an expert on the aurora borealis. He grew up in Norway fascinated by the mysterious light display, and hes not alone. Seeing it has become a must for camera-toting international tourists, whether in Russia, Alaska, Greenland or Scandinavia.The sight can prove to be elusive, if ultimately rewarding, our writer found during a trip to northern Sweden, above. Its just a matter of waiting for the cosmic show, she writes._____10. Finally, we end the day with some very good dogs.When we began digitizing six million photos in the Times archive, it quickly became apparent that while people and places changed, the dogs stayed very much the same, providing the kind of reliable delight they now deliver on Instagram scrolls. Above, a man and his dog driving down Fifth Avenue in New York in 1977.As the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show kicks off, we assembled a panel of dog fans  from the Times staff to artists and animal trainers  to examine the everlasting obsession. Dogs are just really pure, one panelist said.Good luck to all the groups and breeds! Well see you Tuesday night when best in show is awarded.Have a winning night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And dont miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.An earlier version of this briefing incorrectly identified Representative Ilhan Omar. She is a freshman congresswoman from Minnesota, not Michigan.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byAnd why and how that case might fail.By Ross DouthatOpinion ColumnistDebates about the Electoral College, like the one that Democrats have lately instigated, often get bogged down in disputes about the intentions of the founding generation  whether they were trying to check mob rule, prop up Southern power, preserve the power of small states, or simply come to a necessarily arbitrary constitutional compromise.These disputes are historically interesting but somewhat practically irrelevant, because everyone agrees that the college doesnt work the way the founders expected. It doesnt allow wise electors to veto demagogic candidates, it doesnt throw most presidential elections to the House of Representatives  and as my colleague Nate Cohn pointed out last week, it doesnt always give extra influence to the smallest states. (Donald Trump won because he overperformed in big swing states, not because he cobbled together a coalition of small ones.)[Listen to The Argument podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]Instead the Electoral College really just does one big thing that a popular-vote system wouldnt do: It makes it possible for close elections to yield a president supported by a minority of voters, especially in circumstances where that minority is regionally concentrated rather than diffuse.Is there a case for a system that sometimes produces undemocratic outcomes? I think so, on two grounds. First, it creates incentives for political parties and candidates to seek supermajorities rather than just playing for 50.1 percent, because the latter play is a losing one more often than in a popular-vote presidential system.Second, it creates incentives for political parties to try to break regional blocs controlled by the opposition, rather than just maximizing turnout in their own areas, because you win the presidency consistently only as a party of multiple regions and you can crack a rival partys narrow majority by flipping a few states.According to this  admittedly contrarian  theory, the fact that the Electoral College produces chaotic or undemocratic outcomes in moments of ideological or regional polarization is actually a helpful thing, insofar as it drives politicians and political hacks (by nature not the most creative types) to think bigger than regional blocs and 51 percent majorities.Thus the electoral/popular split of 1888 pointed the way to William McKinley and Teddy Roosevelts national Republican majorities, and the near-splits of 1968 and 1976 pushed us toward Reagans nationwide landslides and Bill Clintons successful center-left campaigns. Time and again a close election leads to hand-wringing about the need for Electoral College reform; time and again, politicians and parties respond to the colleges incentives, and more capacious and unifying majorities are born.Does this theory fit our current situation? In a sense, yes. Donald Trump could win the presidency without a popular-vote majority only because both parties have been locked into base-turnout strategies that are partially responsible for our governments ineffectiveness and gridlock. And to the extent that Hillary Clintons campaign leaned into this polarization (writing off many constituencies that her husband competed for), she deserved her electoral-college loss.Trump could also only win the presidency without a popular-vote majority because a large region of the country, the greater Rust Belt and Appalachia, had been neglected by both parties policies over the preceding decades, leading to a slow-building social crisis that the national press only really noticed because of Trumps political success. In this sense, Clintons weird post-election boast that her half of the country was way more economically dynamic indicated the advantages of a system where a declining region can punch above its popular-vote weight  because it makes it harder for a party associated with economic winners to simply write the losers off.However: This defense of occasional countermajoritarian presidencies assumes that the political system will, over the medium-term, be responsive to the Electoral Colleges incentives  that parties will be capable of overcoming polarization and addressing specific regional grievances, that politicians will be capable of working toward Rooseveltian or Reaganesque majorities, that presidents who win with a popular-vote minority will either adapt and gain a majority the next time (as George W. Bush did) or lose like Benjamin Harrison and John Quincy Adams.And neither political party has responded to 2016 the way my defense of the Electoral College predicts they should. A countermajoritarian outcome has not produced supermajoritarian ambitions. Instead of trying to expand its base, the Trump-era G.O.P. seems to be relying on the Electoral College to actively avoid any sustained outreach, while Trumps likely Democratic rivals seem to be taking Clintons popular-vote margin as a license to march leftward.This points to a reality that the colleges defenders need to recognize: If neither party can escape 50-50 politics, if polarization makes electoral/popular splits recur cycle after cycle, then the Electoral Colleges arguable virtues will no longer apply, and it will just be one more delegimitizer in a system shadowed by partisan disillusionment, one more potential catalyst for a true constitutional crackup.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female.Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.

You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Sara AridiA new scripted show on BET reimagines the behind-the-scenes work that went into Soul Train. And after a dramatic buildup, President Trump delivers his second State of the Union address. AMERICAN SOUL 9 p.m. on BET. Set in 1970s Los Angeles against the backdrop of the Vietnam War, this new drama series chronicles the making of the first national program of its kind: Soul Train, a response to American Bandstand written, produced and owned by black people. Sinqua Walls (Power) portrays Don Cornelius, the creator and host of the show, alongside the actors Kelly Price and Jason Dirden. Among the guest stars are Wayne Brady, Bobby Brown and some former members of Destinys Child, Kelly Rowland and Michelle Williams. American Soul debuts with two back-to-back episodes in which Don goes out of his way to secure a star performer who will take his project to the next level. In an interview with The New York Times, Rowland  who appeared on the show in 1998  talked about her role as Gladys Knight and what the series meant to her growing up. Soul Train was one of my first memories of watching all these different beautiful black people dancing and having a good time, she said.STATE OF THE UNION 9 p.m. on ABC, CBS, Fox, NBC and various cable news stations. The 2019 State of the Union address has finally arrived. The annual tradition was delayed when Speaker Nancy Pelosi told President Trump that she would not host him in the House until the government reopened, leading to a tit-for-tat that was resolved last week, after the 35-day government shutdown ended. While talks surrounding a border wall have dominated the news out of Washington lately, Trump is expected to discuss several other topics and make a call for bipartisanship. The speech will be followed by the Democrats official response, to be delivered by Stacey Abrams.RAY ROMANO: RIGHT HERE, AROUND THE CORNER (2019) on Netflix. Ray Romano puts on surprise performances at the Comedy Cellar and the nearby Village Underground in New York in this new stand-up special. Judging from his material, the actor with the instantly recognizable nasal voice is not unlike his character in Everybody Loves Raymond: a man who never feels like he is doing enough to please his wife. Romano currently stars in Epixs television adaptation of Get Shorty, and will make a second Netflix appearance when the drama Paddleton debuts on Feb. 22.THELMA & LOUISE (1991) stream on Amazon; rent on Amazon, Google Play, iTunes, Vudu or YouTube. Geena Davis and Susan Sarandon play best friends who set out on a weekend fishing trip and wind up becoming gun-toting fugitives in this classic road movie. For Thelma (Davis), the vacation is a much-needed getaway from her controlling husband (Christopher McDonald) that turns into a wild escape after an altercation at a bar parking lot. The movie balances its wild adventures and violence with a profound, feminist message that seems relevant now more than ever.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Peter Baker and Glenn ThrushWASHINGTON  President Trump appeared poised on Tuesday to end two months of scorched-earth confrontation without the money he demanded for a border wall as Republicans pressured him to accept a bipartisan spending deal rather than close the government again on Friday.Mr. Trump pronounced himself unsatisfied with the agreement brokered by House and Senate negotiators, and he refused to publicly commit to signing it. But he all but ruled out another government shutdown and emphasized that he would find other methods to finance a border barrier, leading aides and allies to predict he would grudgingly go along with the deal.Am I happy at first glance? the president said, speaking with reporters at the beginning of a cabinet meeting. I just got to see it. The answer is no, Im not. Im not happy.But he said he was moving things around in the budget from far less important areas to finance a wall even without explicit congressional approval, and he expressed no desire to repeat the standoff that shuttered many federal agencies for 35 days. I dont think youre going to see a shutdown, he said.Hours later, after a further briefing, Mr. Trump seemed to signal acceptance of the agreement, saying that it will be hooked up with lots of money from other sources and provide plenty of resources for border security even if not for the wall itself. Regardless of Wall money, he wrote on Twitter on Tuesday evening, it is being built as we speak!The compromise measure, assembled by senior members of both parties on Monday night, includes just $1.375 billion for new fencing along the border with Mexico, far short of the $5.7 billion Mr. Trump sought for a steel or concrete wall  and less even than the deal that he rejected in December, prompting the longest government shutdown in American history.The new measure will be taken up as early as Wednesday by the House, which is controlled by Democrats, followed by the Senate, which is run by Republicans.While some conservatives denounced it as a sellout, Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, spoke with Mr. Trump by telephone on Tuesday and urged him to accept the compromise. I hope hell sign it, Mr. McConnell told reporters afterward. I think he got a pretty good deal.Mr. McConnell had initially sought to avoid the confrontation that has consumed the nations capital by pressing Mr. Trump to accept the previous measure in December, only to be surprised when the president changed his mind. However unenthusiastically, Mr. McConnell stood by the president for weeks and declined to put spending bills on the Senate floor that Mr. Trump would not sign.On Tuesday, however, Mr. McConnell made clear that he was ready to put the new spending package to a vote even though the president had not endorsed it and, notably, did not rule out overriding a veto if Mr. Trump turned against the compromise as he did two months ago.In an attempt to appease Mr. Trump, Republicans repeatedly referred to the deal as a big down payment on his wall and indicated that they were open to him transferring funds within the government to build more barriers. Mr. McConnell said he had no objection to the president using whatever tools were available. Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee suggested using $800 million in drug interdiction funding to shore up border security in areas used by narcotic traffickers.Republicans also asserted that they scored a victory by fending off Democratic efforts to impose a stricter cap on the number of detention beds for arrested immigrants and by securing any money for a barrier given that Speaker Nancy Pelosi at one point rejected even a single dollar for a wall she deemed immoral.Its amazing how shutdown fatigue challenges your flexibility on things, said Senator Kevin Cramer, Republican of North Dakota, adding that he would most likely support the bill if the final text matched the descriptions he had been given.Current and former administration officials said on Tuesday that Mr. Trump seemed to be preparing to sign the bill and then reprogram as much money as he can on his own, although they cautioned that the president is unpredictable and his decision would depend on details still to be examined.Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, who joined Mr. Trump on Monday at a rally in El Paso, told attendees at a Senate Republican lunch on Tuesday that his conversations with the president left him with the impression that Mr. Trump was preparing to pivot to a yes on the deal, according to a person in the room.Even Sean Hannity, the Fox News host who denounced the deal on Monday night as a garbage compromise that Republicans would have to answer for, said on Tuesday that he expected Mr. Trump to sign it to keep the government open and get his down payment. Hes telegraphing what hes going to do, Mr. Hannity said on his radio program.Ann Coulter, the conservative commentator whose criticism helped push Mr. Trump into taking a tougher stand in December, agreed but castigated the president for it. Trump talks a good game on the border wall but its increasingly clear hes afraid to fight for it, she wrote on Twitter. Call this his Yellow New Deal.Democrats, who had consented in December to give Mr. Trump $1.6 billion for border security, said this weeks agreement showed the folly of Mr. Trumps brinkmanship. The president had a better deal back in 2018, said Representative Henry Cuellar, Democrat of Texas. He just ended up in a worse situation.Mr. Trump told reporters that he was still thinking about declaring a national emergency to bypass Congress and finance wall construction on his own authority, but aides increasingly doubt he will, given opposition by Mr. McConnell and other Republicans.Instead, Mr. Trump seemed to be trying to frame the outcome on his own terms by insisting he would still be able to protect the border. Right now, were building a lot of wall, he said.In fact, no new walls have been built or financed by Congress based on the prototypes that the Trump administration unveiled in October 2017. Projects to replace or repair about 40 miles of existing barriers have been started or completed since 2017.Construction of the first extension of the current barriers, 14 miles of a levee wall in the Rio Grande Valley, is scheduled to begin this month, but a butterfly center has asked a judge to block construction because the barrier would bisect its property.In his remarks on Tuesday, Mr. Trump flip-flopped again on taking responsibility for the government shutdown. During the weeks leading up to the impasse, Mr. Trump said he would be proud to shut down the government for border security and would not blame Democrats. Then during the shutdown, as 800,000 federal workers were caught in the middle without paychecks, he blamed Democrats after all.On Tuesday, he switched gears again and took responsibility. I accepted the first one, and Im proud of what weve accomplished because people learned during that shutdown all about the problems coming in from the southern border, he said. I accept it. Ive always accepted it. But this one, I would never accept it if it happens, but I dont think its going to happen. But this would be totally on the Democrats.As Mr. Trump weighed his options, one person familiar with his thinking described him as frustrated by months of Republicans not doing what he hoped to see done at the border.A few weeks ago, in a meeting with restrictionist immigration group leaders, Mr. Trump faulted former Speaker Paul D. Ryan, a fellow Republican, for repeatedly deferring action on the wall, with promises of doing it down the road. Now hes out fishing! Mr. Trump declared, according to an attendee.The new agreement includes a provision that could give the Trump administration broad discretion to increase the number of slots to shelter detained migrants, a win for Republicans that could ease the sting of Mr. Trumps failure to secure full funding for his wall.On its face, the agreement authorizes the Department of Homeland Security to fund about 40,000 beds for detainees, many of them in facilities run by for-profit companies and Immigration and Customs Enforcement near the border in Texas, Arizona and California.In background briefings, House Democratic aides described the language as a glide path from the current level of 49,000 detention beds back to Obama-era levels of 35,000 or fewer.But a summary of the provisions drafted by Senate Republican staff members placed the average number of beds funded under the deal at a much higher number  45,274, including 2,500 for families. And that could rise to as many as 58,500 beds, Republican aides asserted in internal communications, because federal cabinet departments have latitude in how they use funds.Under the complex funding formula in the agreement, the Department of Homeland Security would have reprogramming authority to transfer as much as $750 million from other programs into detention.In short, there is more than enough flexibility for ICE to respond to any forthcoming surges in illegal immigrations and apprehensions, the document said.Two Democratic aides said the Republican memo was accurate in theory, but added that such a drastic expansion in beds was unlikely because it would require taking money from other important programs, such as disaster relief.Democrats on the committee that hashed out the deal, under pressure from immigrant rights groups and their partys ascendant liberal wing, stalled talks over the weekend by demanding that any deal include a cap of 16,500 beds dedicated to housing detainees apprehended through sweeps of communities away from the border. There are currently 20,000 such slots.Immigrant rights advocates expressed disappointment. For the last two years, weve been in a defensive posture, working to hold the line and prevent the bad, but now House Democrats have the power to start doing good, said Lorella Praeli of the American Civil Liberties Union, which has sued the Trump administration over its detention policies.On the other side of the ideological divide, Representative Tom Graves, Republican of Georgia and one of the 17 House and Senate lawmakers negotiating a deal, said on Twitter that he had not signed off or seen a final agreement. But based on the reports, I have concerns, he said. Lots of questions too.Senator Richard C. Shelby, Republican of Alabama, the chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee and one of four lawmakers who worked out the accord, said he was not worried about objections from the right.In some areas, we probably got more than a lot of people expected, and in some areas we didnt get as much, he said. But thats the nature of the beast.Reporting was contributed by Maggie Haberman from New York, and Emily Cochrane, Linda Qiu and Eric Schmitt from Washington.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Heres the sign-up, if you dont already get California Today by email.)How Californians get power has been in the news a lot lately, between Pacific Gas & Electrics  woes and Mayor Eric Garcettis recent announcement that the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power would phase out three natural gas power plants on its way toward 100 percent renewable energy sources.We have an obligation to end dependence on fossil fuels, embrace the technologies of tomorrow, and prioritize renewable energy, Mr. Garcetti said in a statement to The Times this week.The question now is how to do that.Today, the residential solar power provider Sunrun released a report with what its leaders said could be the answer: a mass deployment of residential solar panels, along with batteries, that collectively form a kind of virtual power plant operated by a utility.If one of the challenges is that we want to decommission three of these gas plants, we believe that with rooftop solar and storage, we could pretty easily replace one of them by 2030, said Lynn Jurich, Sunruns chief executive and co-founder.According to the report, although L.A. already has 36,000 homes with rooftop solar units, as a percentage, its fractional: 2.5 percent of residential customers, compared with San Diegos 11 percent, or 139,000 homeowners.Expanding L.A.s total to 75,000 homes and apartment buildings, with batteries, could provide enough power to replace one of the retiring plants and cost $60 million less, the report says.The batteries, Ms. Jurich said, would give customers a backup power source when its less sunny, addressing a primary concern about solar.[Read about Sunruns challenge to Tesla.]The report suggests a virtual power plant could also counter another concern about residential solar power: that upfront costs make it too expensive for many would-be customers.You can contract with the utility, so you can use that credit, she said.Sunrun, however, has an interest in promoting solar power. So how realistic is its suggestion?I put that question to Bill Powers, an engineer in San Diego who serves as an expert witness on behalf of consumers before utility regulators across the country.What Sunrun is proposing is absolutely doable  it is the future and it will happen, he told me. From a technological and cost standpoint, it would be straightforward to make the transition.The problem, he said, is that it is so diametrically counter to the way investor-owned utilities and even large publicly owned utilities have made money and done business historically.But, Mr. Powers said, as pushback against the investor-owned Pacific Gas & Electric has built up, large-scale solar power in L.A. could be a model for cities like San Francisco, which is exploring creating city-owned utilities.Whats happening in the state is a general grass-roots fatigue with investor-owned utilities, he said.Aura Vasquez, a commissioner for the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power, said she thought that, ultimately, rooftop solar will be a big, cost-effective source of the citys power in the future. But getting there will be the tough part.Staff are excited and they want to do it, she said, but I dont know if we really have the knowledge.(We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but wed also encourage you to support local news if you can.)President Trump and the border: No one is above the law or the Constitution, not even the president. Representative Nancy Pelosi announced that the House would sue President Trump over his declaration of a national emergency on the southwestern border, arguing that the move was an illegal attempt to get funding for a border wall. [The New York Times] And Mr. Trump eased off threats to close the border ahead of his trip to Calexico on Friday. Instead, he gave Mexico a one-year warning, to halt all illegal immigration. [The New York Times] If you missed it, here are stories about Calexico from Jose A. Del Real, a Times correspondent based in L.A., who wrote about a toxic river there, navigating life as a transgender woman on the border and other issues.  San Diego County sued the Trump administration over its decision to end a safe-release program for asylum seekers, in which federal authorities reviewed migrants plans and helped connect them with family members. Now, San Diego County officials say service providers have been inundated as theyve scrambled to help families. [Voice of San Diego]Remembering Nipsey Hussle:  Nipsey Hussle was a legend in Los Angeles, placing him in the ranks of an ascendant type of rap star: the regional hero who builds a following without ever becoming a Drake or a Cardi B. For Nipsey Hussle, though, staying close to where he got his start carried tragic consequences. [The New York Times] Born Ermias Asghedom, he was also an inspiration to Eritreans both within the East African country and those who lived elsewhere. [The Atlantic] The rappers brother, Samiel Asghedom, found him dying. He talked about his final moments. [The Los Angeles Times] A special jury in Mendocino County decided that the Hart parents killed themselves and their six adopted children in a murder-suicide. The familys sport utility vehicle had plunged over a cliff, mystifying observers. [The New York Times] For 148 years, a glacier in Yosemite National Park has helped experts learn about the earths history. Now, its almost gone. [California Sunday]Tejal Rao, The Timess California restaurant critic, is out today.So in her stead, may I suggest that this weekend, you choose a tipple from E.&J. Gallo Winerys gigantic family of big-name wine and spirit brands?You may not have known that Gallo, which is based in Modesto, is the nations largest wine company. It had a portfolio of more than 100 largely lower-priced labels that you have perhaps picked up on the way to a party, like Barefoot Cellars or Dark Horse wines.This week, the company announced its set to nab another 34 brands  including Svedka vodka, Ravenswood, Manischewitz and Cooks sparkling wines  in a $1.7 billion deal with its rival, Constellation Brands.The Modesto Bee reported its one of the biggest acquisitions for a Central Valley company in recent history.The San Francisco Chronicle reported the move comes amid broader industry shifts. Cheers to premiumization?California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com. Were you forwarded this email? Sign up for California Today here.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles  but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Nicholas FandosWASHINGTON  Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee said on Tuesday that they had retained two elite white-collar litigators and prominent legal critics of President Trump to help begin inquiries into some of the most sensitive allegations involving the president, including ethics violations, corruption and possible obstruction of justice.The committees chairman, Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, has not committed to opening a formal impeachment inquiry. But the addition of the two lawyers, Norman L. Eisen and Barry H. Berke, indicates that the Democrats do not intend to wait for the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, to finish his work to begin weighing issues that could ultimately be wrapped up in such a proceeding.The president of the United States faces numerous allegations of corruption and obstruction, Mr. Nadler said in a statement announcing the decision. His conduct and crude statements threaten the basic legal, ethical and constitutional norms that maintain our democratic institutions. Congress has a constitutional duty to be a check and balance against abuses of power when necessary.Mr. Nadler gave little detail about those inquiries in his statement, saying that Mr. Eisen and Mr. Berke would consult on matters related to the Department of Justice, including the departments review of Special Counsel Muellers investigation. A Judiciary Committee official, who was not authorized to discuss the appointments publicly, said that Democrats would be making public more detailed plans in the coming weeks.Retaining two counsels of Mr. Eisen and Mr. Berkes caliber is relatively unusual for a congressional committee, and it underscores the new legal and political jeopardy the president faces in a House controlled by Democrats. Just in the last week, Democrats in the chamber have begun laying the groundwork to try to obtain Mr. Trumps long-concealed tax returns and restarted a broad investigation into his ties not only to Russia but also to other foreign entities that could have financial or other leverage over the president or his associates.Investigators in each inquiry will have the power to call witnesses, demand documents and issue subpoenas to compel evidence  treatment Mr. Trump has already branded presidential harassment.Mr. Eisen served as the top White House ethics lawyer under President Barack Obama and later as his ambassador to the Czech Republic. A former white-collar litigator and investigator, he has emerged since Mr. Trumps election as one of the presidents most recognizable legal critics, using his perch as chairman of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington and a contributor position at CNN to comment voluminously about what he has argued are ethical lapses and instances of outright corruption in the presidents administration.Mr. Eisen also serves as a co-counsel in a lawsuit accusing Mr. Trump of violating the emoluments clause of the Constitution by refusing to divorce himself from his businesses, and thus reaping financial benefits from foreign agents.Mr. Berke, a partner at the New York firm Kramer Levin, is less well known in Washington but brings deep connections to the New York legal world, including the federal prosecutors there investigating Mr. Trumps campaign and inaugural committee. His practice primarily deals with complicated financial and tax crimes, though he has written with Mr. Eisen about obstruction of justice and the presidents other legal vulnerabilities.Mr. Berke represented Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York in a federal investigation into the mayors campaign fund-raising, which concluded in 2017 without charges being filed.Mr. Eisen resigned from most of his other obligations on Tuesday, and he is expected to drop his role in the emoluments case. Mr. Berke will remain a partner at his firm but spend most of his time working with the Judiciary Committee.As House committees begin the array of new inquiries, the Judiciary Committee is likely to emerge as a crucial arbiter of Mr. Trumps political fortunes. It has oversight of the Justice Department and the F.B.I., and has traditionally been the venue where impeachment proceedings begin.Despite considerable pressure from his left flank, Mr. Nadler has thus far approached the impeachment question cautiously, saying repeatedly that he does not yet see a case and wants to wait for Mr. Mueller to finish his work before proceeding to any formal deliberations.But he has made some of his views clear.In recent weeks, Mr. Nadler has said publicly that he believes Mr. Trump has engaged in a long pattern of obstruction and views his attacks on federal law enforcement as an existential threat to those institutions.Mr. Nadler has said that he also plans to investigate Mr. Trumps role in hush-money payments made shortly before Election Day in 2016 to two women who said they had affairs with Mr. Trump  circumstances that, if true, he said would most likely meet the criteria for an impeachable offense. The presidents former personal lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, implicated Mr. Trump in those payments in court last year as he pleaded guilty to campaign finance and other violations.Mr. Eisen and Mr. Berke, together with Noah Bookbinder, the executive director of CREW, have written a series of reports and opinion articles on obstruction of justice, collusion and Mr. Trump for the Brookings Institution. Their most recent Brookings report on obstruction, published last August, laid out a case that Mr. Trumps publicly known actions amounted to obstruction of justice.Analyzing the current allegations against the president under the legal framework laid out in our original report even more strongly supports that the president obstructed justice under ordinary application of the relevant criminal law, they wrote.In many ways, they added, the question has become less about whether there is a case that Donald J. Trump obstructed justice, and more about whether and in what form the rule of law will be followed.Representative Doug Collins of Georgia, the top Republican on the Judiciary Committee, seized on those writings in a statement on Tuesday afternoon that accused Democrats of partisan targeting of Mr. Trump. Republicans also fumed that as he added Democratic oversight firepower, Mr. Nadler refused to extend a waiver that would have allowed a former F.B.I. agent working on oversight with the committees Republicans to stay on the job.Looks like Democrats are staffing up for impeachment before Muellers report is even out, Mr. Collins wrote, adding a reference to a December Op-Ed article written by Mr. Berke and Mr. Eisen. Is this the gig Berke and Eisen were auditioning for when they predicted last December the president was unlikely to have a calm 2019?Ben Protess contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byAmerica has many needs. A 30-foot-high wall on the Mexican border is not one of them.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.By many measures, America is thriving. The economy is humming, and unemployment is at 4 percent. High-school graduation rates are at an all-time high, and teenage pregnancy rates are at an all-time low. The crime rate is way down, and illegal immigration has been declining for over a decade.And yet: Polls show that three in five Americans think the country is on the wrong track. A majority expect things to get worse in the coming year. The presidents job approval numbers are underwater; Congresss even more so.As President Trump prepares to deliver his delayed State of the Union address on Tuesday, he might want to ask himself why people are so unsettled.Our dysfunctional political system is surely taking a toll. Witness the recent partial government shutdown over the presidents demand for $5.7 billion in border-wall funding: For 35 days, a quarter of the federal government was derailed and 800,000 workers stripped of their livelihood, at an estimated loss of $3 billion in economic activity. All in service of nothing but a presidential tempest.One certainty: There was not  and is not  a border emergency meriting the infliction of such pain and damage, or the waste of billions on a futile wall. Mr. Trump has said that his big speech on Tuesday will cover a lot of territory and emphasize unity. Considering that he pledged the same last year, its wise to remain skeptical. But if he is interested in assuring the public that he can see beyond his narrow politicking on immigration to tackle truly urgent problems, heres a starter list of possibilities:Health care. Were going to have insurance for everybody, Mr. Trump promised. Instead, after laboring to gut the Affordable Care Act, he has so far produced only higher premiums and, according to a recent Gallup survey, seven million more uninsured Americans.Opioids. Mr. Trump was on the right track when, in October 2017, he declared opioid abuse a public health emergency. Yet almost 50,000 Americans died of opioid overdoses in 2017, more than were ever killed by guns or H.I.V. in a single year. Economic inequality. In many ways this is the greatest economy in the HISTORY of America and the best time EVER to look for a job! the president tweeted last June. Not for all Americans. Real wages have barely budged for decades; the federal minimum wage of $7.25 an hour has not risen in nearly 10 years. Though oversimplified, Bernie Sanderss claim that the top 0.1 percent control almost as much wealth as the bottom 90 percent is basically correct. Before falling silent on the question, Trump once vowed to eliminate a tax loophole that benefits wealthy hedge fund managers and private equity executives; that might be one proposal on which he could team up with the newly Democratic House.Infrastructure. The president once sought $1.5 trillion in new spending on infrastructure, but Congress allocated only $21.2 billion or slightly more than 1 percent of Mr. Trumps pledge. One-quarter of bridges in the United States are structurally deficient or not designed to handle the current traffic, the Department of Transportation estimates. The lead contamination in the water system of Flint, Mich., shocked America, but it was one of many examples of lead-poisoned water around the country. New Yorks subways and public housing have fallen into decrepitude. Schools in Baltimore went without heat during last winter.Foreign policy. On the campaign trail, Mr. Trump pledged a Middle East peace plan. Where is it? Meanwhile, we are spending roughly $700 billion annually on the military. Our troops have been fighting in Afghanistan for 17 years. Thousands more troops remain in Iraq. The high price of higher ed. Student-loan debt has topped $1.5 trillion and now constitutes the second-largest category of consumer debt, behind only mortgages. Education Secretary Betsy DeVos, who recently declared the debt load a crisis in higher education, has proposed no credible plan to address it.Gun safety. Weve seen too much of it, and were going to stop it, Mr. Trump said in the wake of the Parkland, Fla., school shooting last February. Yet in 2017, more people were killed by guns than in any other of the past 50 years and at the highest rate since the crack epidemic of the mid-1990s. Climate change. Most scientists  and nations  see it as the mother of all crises. Mr. Trumps approach thus far: champion fossil fuels and, when the weather gets chilly, tweet a joke about how the nation could use more global warming. Compromise on how to address the climate crisis will be hard to come by. But if the nations leaders are going to have a showdown, cant it at least be over a real problem? The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday morning. Welcome to the first working day of the new year. Want this by email? Sign up here.Last year was an unexpectedly bad year for the stock market. But Wall Streets top stock pickers are expecting gains in 2019. Still, there is plenty that could go wrong and upend those forecasts, the NYTs Peter Eavis and Guilbert Gates write.Heres a look:Borrowing costs: The Fed increased its target rate four times in 2018, and fears that the central bank would raise interest rates too much and send a chill through the American economy weighed heavily on stocks in 2018. If investors dont see signs that the economy is growing steadily, they could hang on the Feds every move, and monetary policy meeting, this year.President Trump: Investors were mostly tolerant in early 2108 of Mr. Trumps unpredictable declarations on Twitter. But as the trade war with China escalated, his proclamations began to make investors jumpy. And it wasnt just the tweets about China: The president also roiled the markets with criticism of the Fed. Mr. Trump is now the top concern that keeps investors up at night.Global growth: Large overseas economies  China, Japan and the European Union  appear to be taking a turn for the worse. Growth may accelerate if trade agreements are forged in 2019. But the problems could run deeper. Chinas methods for pulling itself out of an economic rut  are probably not as effective as they once were, and Europe could be hit hard if Britain crashes out of the European Union.Tech stocks: Companies like Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Netflix helped push the S&P 500 and Nasdaq to records. But when some those companies dipped, they dragged the indexes down with them. The markets fate depends in large part on whether investors fall back in love with large technology companies.What has to go right? The U.S. economy needs to grow strongly, the Fed needs to tread a delicate middle ground, the trade war needs to wind down, and the economies of Europe and China need to stabilize.More on markets: Retail investors are trying to hold on despite the intense volatility. As the great unwind continues, markets are at increased risk of experiencing doom loops. Analysts have been trimming their earnings forecasts since September, and investors are worried the outlook for companies will deteriorate further.New data showing weakening factory activity in China is amplifying concerns about the health of the global economy and driving down stocks across Asia. The Caixin/Markit manufacturing purchasing managers index for China sank last month to 49.7, falling below the 50 mark that represents contraction for the first time since May 2017. The slide, reported today, followed similarly gloomy results on Monday from the Chinese government. The sense of impending malaise spread elsewhere in Asia, with production activity in Malaysia and Taiwan shrinking to its slowest pace in years. The Hang Seng Index in Hong Kong responded by falling nearly 2.8 percent on the first trading day of 2019. The Shanghai composite index slipped 1.15 percent. In Australia, the S&P/ASX 200 was down 1.6 percent. S&P futures also took a hit. Stocks have been shaky as investors fret about trade tensions between China and the U.S., the Feds position on interest rates, and intensifying predictions of waning economic growth around the world. Employees at Baidu received a letter today from Robin Li, the chief executive of the Chinese technology company, warning that winter is coming. In the note, reported by the South China Morning Post, Mr. Li wrote that economic restructuring was as cold and real as winter to every company.____________________________Todays DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________With talks between China and the United States set to begin this week in Beijing, Robert Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, faces the assignment of a lifetime: redefining the trade relationship between the worlds two largest economies by March 2.But first, writes Glenn Thrush in the NYT, Mr. Lighthizer will need to keep a mercurial president from wavering in the face of queasy financial markets, which have suffered their steepest annual decline since 2008. Despite his declaration that trade wars are easy to win and his recent boast that he is a Tariff Man, Mr. Trump is increasingly eager to reach a deal that will help calm the markets, which he views as a political electrocardiogram of his presidency.After 40 years of dealing with China and watching its government dangle promises that do not materialize, Mr. Lighthizer remains deeply skeptical of Beijing and has warned Mr. Trump that the United States may need to exert more pressure through additional tariffs to win true concessions.Silicon Valley was embattled in 2018. With lawmakers saying Big Tech has too much power and regulation looming, it might seem like a good time for companies like Alphabet, Amazon and Facebook to lie low. That is not the path they are taking, writes the NYTs David Streitfeld. In fact, Big Techs dizzying expansion is barely getting started.Tech companies are competing to own the cloud and become, in essence, the internets landlord. Google made a deal in 2017 to reimagine a chunk of waterfront Toronto from the ground up. Amazon is adding warehouses in rural areas to provide urban dwellers with everything they need to stay home. For those who venture out, driverless cars will be operated by Big Tech. And the companies are plunging further into artificial intelligence.To accomplish all this, Big Tech needs hundreds of thousands of new employees. Google is bulking up in New York and Amazon is planning satellite offices in New York and Washington. Even in Silicon Valley, the boom is accelerating. Last spring Facebook leased one million square feet in Sunnyvale, Calif., for its fast-growing community operations team.More on tech: Mark Zuckerberg admits in a New Years post that he is facing an uphill battle to fix Facebook. And 2019 is techs chance to make it right.The Commerce Department is mulling export restrictions on artificial intelligence, citing the technologys importance to national security. But Silicon Valley insiders say the potential rules could short-circuit U.S. competitiveness in an industry built largely by Americans, reports the NYTs Cade Metz.The news: In November, the U.S. government included computer vision, speech recognition and other artificial intelligence categories on a list of emerging and foundational technologies being considered for export restrictions. The rules could limit or block exports to countries such as China, whose tactics toward American technology have been criticized by the Trump administration as bullying or illegal.Why it matters: Tech experts are nervous that restrictions could stifle American innovation in the field while increasing development of A.I. technology abroad, especially in Asia. The public comment period closes on Jan. 10.Spencer Neumann is expected to join Netflix as its chief financial officer early in 2019, according to Reuters and the WSJ. He was put on paid leave by Activision Blizzard, where he held the same role, and will be fired, though the video game company did not give a reason.The long-planned ascent of Chung Euisun to the top of Hyundai Motor Group continues with a New Years speech he delivered to employees today in place of Chung Mong-Koo, his father and the current chairman of the Korean automotive conglomerate. (FT)Deals Over the last few years, Blackstone, Carlyle, CVC and other private equity firms have started funds that can own companies for 15 years or longer. (WSJ) Martin Bandier, the chief executive of Sony/ATV, the worlds largest music publisher, says the music industry is ripe for consolidation. (FT) The Chinese gold miner Zijin Mining Group plans to sell new shares worth up to 8 billion yuan, or $1.16 billion, in Shanghai to help finance its purchase of Nevsun Resources of Canada. (Reuters)Politics and Policy The U.S. will get its first taste of divided government under President Trump, as Democrats take a majority the House. The question is, who will control the agenda? (NYT) How Joe Biden has paved the way for a possible presidential run in 2020. (NYT) Democratic lawmakers plan to push ahead this year with an infrastructure package, an issue that both parties might support. (FT)Tech A new cybersecurity law in Vietnam puts stringent controls on technology companies operating inside the country and censors what its citizens read online. (NPR) Fortnite was very good to Tyler Blevins in 2018. Mr. Blevins, a 27-year-old professional video gamer known as Ninja, said his 94,958 Fortnite kills had helped him earn close to $10 million last year. (CNN) Didi Chuxing, the Chinese ride-sharing start-up, has begun offering a suite of financial products, including crowdfunding and lending, as it continues to diversify outside of its core business. (Reuters) Erik Prince, who founded the security company Blackwater, is starting a fund that will raise up to $500 million to invest in metals used for electric-vehicle batteries. (FT)Best of the Rest Four cases in December show why insider trading will remain a focus for federal prosecutors and regulators. (NYT) Allergan raised prices on more than two dozen pharmaceutical products by nearly 10 percent, as drugmakers increased prices on hundreds of medicines in the U.S. this week. (WSJ) Denmarks government is looking to strengthen the Financial Supervisory Authority, its financial regulator, following concerns about its handling of the Danske Bank money laundering scandal. (FT) Hedge-fund managers like David Einhorn, whose Greenlight Capital closed out 2018 with its biggest-ever annual loss, are struggling to prove that they can beat the market and are worth their high fees. For many, this will be a make-or-break year. (WSJ) Major perks for customers like air miles and cash back were meant to lead to higher returns for retail banks. But consumers figured out how to game the system. Now banks are seeking ways to keep customers happy while cutting extras. (WSJ) Netflix removed an episode of a show featuring the comedian Hasan Minhaj that focused on Saudi Arabias role in the killing of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi. The internet streaming service, which took down the content after receiving a complaint from the kingdom, now faces concerns about freedom of expression online. (FT) Cash begone: The value of Chinese mobile payments more than doubled to $17 trillion in 2017, even as Chinas central bank penalizes merchants who do not accept bills and coins. (FT) American companies raised prices in 2016 to bolster their profits, but in doing so also transferred three percentage points of national income to wealthy families from lower-income households, according to new research. (WaPo) Showtimes fictional series Black Monday, premiering on Jan. 20, features a group of traders who ride the surging stock market in the 1980s and then suffer its 1987 crash. To present-day Wall Street, it feels familiar and possibly prophetic. (WaPo) Jeff Bezos, Mark Zuckerberg, Jack Ma: Which billionaires won in 2018, and which lost? (Bloomberg) Chesapeake Energy shifted its focus to oil from natural gas just in time for oil prices to tumble 40 percent since October. One board member feels snakebitten. (WSJ) Bitcoin slumped about 70 percent in 2018, erasing $160 billion of digital wealth in a move that demonstrated the instability of the cryptocurrency market. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! Well see you tomorrow.Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byFirst WordsBy Willy StaleyOn the 12th day of the federal government shutdown, the 45th president of the United States of America posted a meme on his Instagram account: an image of his half-glowering, half-smirking visage, hovering gigantically above the Southwestern desert, dwarfing the pictures centerpiece  a rendering of his signature campaign promise  and, in a familiar font, some explanatory text: The Wall Is Coming. Its an image that makes you think, Thats from HBOs hit series Game of Thrones  sort of, and then makes you think about the unique privileges and burdens of living in this moment in history.There are so many unusual aspects of Donald Trumps presidency that his willingness to communicate with the public through internet memes is often overshadowed. Typically, he retweets images made by his most enthusiastic backers  in November he shared one of the Clintons, Barack Obama, Huma Abedin, Robert Mueller, his own deputy attorney general Rod Rosenstein and others, all locked up in a prison cell together  but the wall meme appears to be a White House original. It is also the second Game of Thrones meme the president has shared in the last two months. He does this sort of thing so often that the Senate minority leader, Chuck Schumer, recently felt compelled to tweet, like an exasperated high school teacher, Enough with the memes.Its impossible to overstate how peculiar it is that the most powerful man in the world, who will turn 73 in June, posts memes. Its a behavior more often associated with youth, irreverence and a surfeit of free time  though certainly plenty of old, aggrieved people have picked up the habit in recent years. In 2016, the Trump campaign united message-board trolls and Facebook boomers, and together they disseminated so many memes that some of them began to believe  both jokingly and not  that their meme magic had helped Trump win the election.In current usage, meme refers most often to an image with text overlay, designed for distribution online. Theyre like the bumper stickers of the digital realm, in that any one concept can be endlessly remixed to convey just about any sort of sentiment (Calvin can pee on anything). What began more than a decade ago as a fun way to imagine how cats might talk has evolved into a surprisingly fertile mode of political communication. The online database Know Your Meme has confirmed the existence of some 4,066 successful memes in the wild  including newcomers like Big Chungus, a fake series of video games starring an obese rabbit, and classics like Doge, which featured a shiba inu speaking broken English. The actual number is certainly much higher.You might find this very silly, and you wouldnt be wrong. But keep in mind: The president posts them.All of this represents a long fall from the memes origins. The word was coined by the British ethologist Richard Dawkins in his 1976 book, The Selfish Gene, as a way to conceptualize the transmission of culture in biological terms. For Dawkins, a meme, shortened from the Greek mimeme  an imitated thing  was a unit of culture, a building block of our mental architecture. Just as genes propagate themselves in the gene pool by leaping from body to body via sperms or eggs, Dawkins wrote, memes propagate themselves in the meme pool by leaping from brain to brain. They could be as small and short-lived as a tune or catchphrase, he explained, or as large and consequential as God and eternal damnation.Genes, Dawkins argued, do not aim to propagate a species; they seek only to propagate themselves. Memes, he believed, were similarly selfish. Dawkins spends most of his chapter on memetics fixating on religion, and because he has since become such an aggressively outspoken atheist, reading the book today it is easy to get the sense that he considers religion almost parasitic. The concept of God, he figured, endures because it offers a psychological salve to people, while eternal damnation survives because it is useful as a means of social control. Thus both live on, copied from generation to generation, latching on to humanity and perpetuating themselves too effectively to be got rid of. Selection favors memes that exploit their cultural environment to their own advantage, Dawkins wrote.Ideas, in this view, have lives of their own, and the environment in which they struggle for survival is the human mind  our limited processing power means that only the toughest will persevere. If a meme is to dominate the attention of a human brain, Dawkins wrote, it must do so at the expense of rival memes. He conceded that a meme would also have to compete for airtime on the radio or TV, billboard space, column inches and book pages. But, writing back in the 1970s, he had no reason to consider what would happen if those scarcity conditions vanished. If they did, you would find yourself in a terrifyingly fecund primordial soup in which all sorts of ideas could develop, mutate, cross-pollinate, do battle, die off and be reborn. You would find yourself, well, online.And while this primordial soup has brought forth many novel concepts, and resuscitated some old, corrosive beliefs, the things we call memes today are largely just joke formats  mechanisms for the efficient production of humor. They develop less like new ideas and more like algal blooms, spreading until they block out the sun and consume all the oxygen, before dying out naturally (people get sick of them) or getting hit with bleach (explainer journalists write about them). Individually, these memes leave little mark on our culture. Worse than being forgettable, they become, within a year or two, embarrassing to think back on for even one second.But taken as a whole, this swarm of cultural mayflies represents a meaningful shift in our culture. Joke-making, a sometimes cruel enterprise, has been mechanized and democratized. Humor now emerges from the ether, authorless or, more accurate, authored and improved upon by everyone. Jokes are communal now, and constant. Online, everything that happens all day  in politics, in culture, in the news  is rapidly repurposed for laughs, by everyone, all at once.For the most part, this is harmless. After all, what could possibly go wrong in a culture where all anyone wants is to be perpetually amused?Before Trumps border wall was the cause of a government shutdown, it was a mnemonic device  less a policy proposal than a string tied around the finger. According to a recent article in The Times, the wall was a memory trick for an undisciplined candidate. Trumps advisers Sam Nunberg and Roger Stone knew that getting tough on immigration would play well to a right-wing audience, but they also knew the man they were dealing with. He has a mind for the tactile, so they gave him something gigantic to hang onto: an 1,800-mile-long slab of concrete.But Trumps talking points were never just talking points. They were more like bits. His campaign rallies were rambling, unscripted affairs, almost like an open-mic comedy set: Not a fearsome Nuremberg rally, but an aging showman road-testing material, seeing what caught the audiences attention. Early on, his speeches were all over the place, the NBC reporter Katy Tur told Frontline, but as time passed, he started to really hone his message, and he started to remember what lines worked. In the same episode, the writer Marc Fisher said Trump told him that he would simply wait to see the red lights on the TV cameras in the press box turn on, indicating he was live, and then he would say whatever it took to keep the red light on.The border wall kept the lights on. At a 2016 rally in Burlington, Vt., Trump mentioned the wall to tremendous, wonderful applause, then paused and asked his audience, And whos gonna pay for the wall? The crowd roared back, MEXICO! They  he and his crowd  did this two more times together, then Trump laughed. Ive never done it before, I swear, he said, throwing his arms up as if surprised it had worked. That was pretty cool. Were gonna have to use that.This incentive structure, in which an easily distracted person says a bunch of stuff he kind of means to an assembled audience, slowly learning what generates a reaction and what doesnt, is familiar: Its like posting online. This is the process that nudged the wall ever closer to reality, despite the fact that it was only ever supposed to be a metaphor, a shorthand, a catchphrase. It is an idea with no real owner or creator, passed from person to person, from lectern to grandstand to TV and Twitter and back again, copying itself and growing and mutating until it became big, beautiful and tipped with spikes forged from American steel. The border wall is, in the truest sense, a meme: an idea that persists not because it will benefit us but simply because it thrives in our environment. It was so effective at doing whatever it did that it couldnt be contained, spilling out of the presidents brain and spreading throughout our entire body politic, cooling and hardening like bacon grease, until it finally brought everything to a standstill. And I hate to admit it, but that is a little funny.Willy Staley is a story editor at the magazine.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with a multistate lawsuit over President Trumps national emergency declaration, our obituary for the designer Karl Lagerfeld, and another presidential run for Senator Bernie Sanders.A coalition of states, including California and New York, challenged President Trump in court on Monday over his plan to use emergency powers to pay for a wall on the border with Mexico.The suit, filed in San Francisco, argues that the president doesnt have the power to divert funds because it is Congress that controls spending. Read the full lawsuit here.Catch up: The lawsuit is part of a constitutional battle that Mr. Trump set off last week when he declared a national emergency in order to use money that lawmakers declined to give him.Go deeper: Presidents have declared national emergencies nearly five dozen times since 1976. Never before has one been used after Congress rejected funding for a particular policy.Mr. Trump said on Monday that forces loyal to President Nicols Maduro stand to lose everything by refusing to allow in emergency aid that has been blocked at the border.Mr. Trumps remarks at a rally in Florida came five days before a deadline that his administration and the Venezuelan opposition leader, Juan Guaid, have declared for getting aid into the country, which has experienced long shortages of food and medicine.Whats next: Its unclear how the Venezuelan opposition would break the blockade. John Bolton, Mr. Trumps national security adviser, said the U.S. military, which has airlifted supplies to the Venezuela-Colombia border, would not enter the country.Another angle: The crisis has prompted plans for dueling concerts this weekend, one organized by the British billionaire Richard Branson and one by the Venezuelan government.McKinsey & Company, which says it offers management advice to 90 of the worlds 100 biggest companies, also has a secretive $12.3 billion investment arm, prompting questions about conflicts of interest.In Puerto Rico, where McKinsey is advising a board that seeks to reduce the islands debt, the companys hedge fund has investments in that debt, according to a report released on Monday.Response: McKinsey says the way the fund is operated ensures that its employee investors do not stand to benefit from the firms inside knowledge. But those assurances have been challenged in Congress and in lawsuits.The Roman Catholic Church has guidelines for what to do when clerics break celibacy vows and father children. There are no estimates of how many such children exist.A Vatican spokesman said that the fundamental principle of the internal document was the protection of the child. He said the guidelines requested that the father leave the priesthood, but another official said that was impossible to impose.How we know: The Vatican confirmed, apparently for the first time, the existence of the rules in response to a query from The Times.Related: The revelation comes as the Vatican prepares for a meeting this week about the churchs child sexual abuse crisis at which victims will speak.Catch up: The Vatican announced over the weekend that Pope Francis had expelled Theodore McCarrick, a former cardinal and archbishop of Washington, from the priesthood. It appeared to be the first time that a cardinal had been defrocked for sexual abuse.The designer, whose career formed the prototype of the modern luxury fashion industry, died today in Paris at 85.The creative director at Chanel since 1983, Mr. Lagerfeld helped transform the fashion house by wresting it into the present with a healthy dose of disrespect and a dollop of pop culture, our fashion critic writes.From the archives: In an interview with T Magazine in 2015, Mr. Lagerfeld said, Luxury is something very few people have. And to buy a handbag is to have a dream of getting nearer. Thats our culture and tons of people  me included  make a lot of money from it. Read more here.Math would seem to be the ultimate meritocracy. Either you can solve a problem or you cant.But fewer than 1 percent of doctorates in the subject are awarded to African-Americans. Dr. Edray Goins, pictured above, won two math prizes at Caltech, and in 1999 he received a Ph.D. from Stanfords math department. To say that I feel isolated, he wrote in a widely shared essay, is an understatement. The 2020 race: Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont announced today that hes running for president again. Heres where the runner-up for the 2016 Democratic nomination stands on the issues.North Carolina vote: At a hearing on Monday that could settle the final undecided House race of 2018, a state election official said that an operative working on behalf of a Republican candidate went to elaborate lengths to conceal an illegal absentee ballot scheme.Southern Baptist Convention: The largest evangelical denomination in the U.S. has announced plans to address revelations of widespread sexual abuse in churches across the country.Political storm in Canada: The resignation of a top adviser to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has deepened a crisis over allegations that the government tried to interfere in a criminal court case.Jussie Smollett case: The police in Chicago said they planned to re-interview the Empire star after news reports that the attack he reported last month had been a hoax. Heres a timeline of the case.Snapshot: Above, Asdrubal Cabrera of the Texas Rangers at bat during spring training in Surprise, Ariz., on Monday. (Start the countdown: Spring begins March 20, and Major League Baseball has its earliest opening day ever, March 28.)In memoriam: Lee Radziwill, a former princess and the younger sister of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, died on Friday at 85. George Mendonsa made the most credible claim to being the sailor who was famously photographed kissing a woman in Times Square after the end of World War II. He died on Sunday at 95.Late-night comedy: In declaring a national emergency last week, President Trump said, I didnt need to do this, but Id rather do it much faster. That prompted Stephen Colbert to say: Thats the exact opposite of an emergency. Thats a choice.What were watching: This Twitter thread. The briefings editor, Andrea Kannapell, writes: Dance tells its own story. I can only hope someone will put into words what these clips of break dancing among rural Chinese have to say. Cook: Leave the measuring spoons aside for a simple roast fish with ginger, scallions and soy. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recommendations.)Watch: Sergei Bondarchuks sprawling 1960s adaptation of War and Peace is a singular feat of filmmaking that can never be repeated, our critic writes. A digital restoration of the seven-hour-plus magnum opus is screening through Thursday at Film Society of Lincoln Center, and a home release by Criterion is in the works.Listen: For Real, a previously unreleased Tom Petty track about media posturing, rings true in 2019.Read: Our Globetrotting feature offers a preview of books being published around the world.Smarter Living: Face-to-face connections come with meaningful bonds. How to make time for that? Invite family members into whatever youre already doing. Ask your kids to help you cook. Invite your spouse to walk the dog with you. You can turn ritual into connection.An organizational psychologist offers strategies to handle even the most hopelessly overstuffed inbox.Puccinis Madama Butterfly is one of the most popular operas ever written. It would have been pretty amazing to be at its premiere, which was given this week in 1904, right?Undoubtedly  because it was one of the great fiascos in opera history.The premiere, at the storied Teatro alla Scala in Milan, was often drowned out by what one critic described as groans, roars, moos, laughs, bellows, sneers. The Times reported that the opera had been received rather coldly.Puccini compared the experience to a lynching. Some believed rivals had organized claques to embarrass him. Others cited the operas subject matter: An unsympathetic American naval lieutenant impregnates and abandons a Japanese teenager, later driving her to suicide.After several revisions  including a new remorseful aria to soften the lieutenant  Butterfly became a hit. (The challenge in staging it these days has more to do with avoiding Orientalism and cultural appropriation.)And in 2016, La Scala staged the rarely seen original version, in a symbolic act of contrition.Thats it for this briefing. Thanks to all the readers who answered our call on Friday for odd facts, some of which we plan to feature in future briefings. See you next time. ChrisThank youMark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson gave us the break from the news. Michael Cooper, who covers classical music and dance for The Times, wrote todays Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S. Were listening to The Daily. Todays episode is about Democrats and Israel. Heres todays mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Vietnamese New Year (3 letters). You can find all our puzzles here.  In 2016, a mariachi band serenaded Julia Preston as she left The Times after more than two decades as a reporter and editor focused on Mexico and immigration. Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles aweekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Timess news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Rod Nordland and Mujib MashalKABUL, Afghanistan  The United States and the Taliban are closing in on a deal to end Americas longest war after six days of some of the most serious Afghan peace negotiations to date wrapped up on Saturday.The talks in Doha, Qatar, lasted much longer than planned and longer than any previous attempt to end the 17-year conflict, and both sides publicly reported progress  a rarity. The chief American negotiator, Zalmay Khalilzad, said on Twitter that the talks were more productive than they have been in the past and he hoped they would resume shortly.He also said he was flying to the Afghan capital, Kabul, for consultations with the government.We have a number of issues left to work out. Nothing is agreed until everything is agreed, and everything must include an intra-Afghan dialogue and comprehensive cease-fire, he said.1/3   After six days in Doha, I'm headed to #Afghanistan for consultations. Meetings here were more productive than they have been in the past. We made significant progress on vital issues.Mr. Khalilzads comments suggested that the key sticking points were the terms of a Taliban cease-fire and getting the insurgents to give up their longstanding refusal to speak to the Afghan government, which they deride as an American puppet.Still, this is the first time in nine years of intermittent peace efforts that all sides seem serious about reaching a deal that, in the first phase, would exchange a Taliban cease-fire for a phased withdrawal of American forces. The Taliban would also pledge not to allow international terror groups to use Afghanistan as a launching pad for attacks against the United States.Then the Afghans and the Taliban would need to detail exactly what the peace will look like in terms of the Taliban sharing power in government and how that might affect an array of other issues, such as the status of women in the country.Since the United States started to engage the Taliban, this by far is the closest to a deal, said Hekmat Khalil Karzai, a former Afghan deputy foreign minister who leads the Center for Conflict and Peace Studies and has been involved in the peace efforts for years.On both sides I sense there is seriousness, I sense there is commitment, and I feel there is resolve, he said.Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Twitter that the news from Doha was encouraging and that the United States was serious about pursuing peace.Mr. Karzai said the American side had shown that seriousness by beginning an effort that includes not only extensive meetings with the Taliban, but also outreach to all regional actors and stakeholders, such as Pakistan, Russia and China, to cooperate.I also see the resolve on the part of the Taliban, he said. I see that they are moving beyond the standard rhetoric, that they are not only engaging but seem committed to a political settlement.The Taliban signaled their own belief in the importance of the talks by appointing one of their most powerful officials, Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, as the chief peace negotiator, on the fourth day. As the talks stretched on, Mr. Khalilzad was said to have repeatedly delayed his flight to Kabul, where he was expected to explain the deal to President Ashraf Ghani, whose government has so far been excluded.Late Saturday, the Taliban spokesman Zabihullah Mujahid reiterated the insurgents longstanding position. Until the issue of withdrawal of foreign forces from Afghanistan is agreed upon, he said, progress in other issues is impossible.But Mr. Mujahid said progress was made on a withdrawal, and he emphasized that the insurgents still wanted to negotiate.Since these issues are critical and need comprehensive discussion, it was decided that talks about unsolved matters will resume in similar future meetings, he added.The basic outlines of the emerging deal have leaked out through Taliban sources. American officials have been tight-lipped by comparison, though Western diplomats tacitly confirmed those outlines.The Americans would promise to withdraw their 14,000 troops, and the Taliban would agree to never again allow their territory to be used by extremists like Al Qaeda, the terrorist network that staged the 2001 attacks on the United States from Afghanistan and set off the start of the war.That much seemed in agreement. But as always, the devil is in the details. How long would the cease-fire be, and would it start before, after or even during the American withdrawal? How long a time frame would the withdrawal cover?All of these questions are potential deal-breakers.Taliban sources remained optimistic, even as Western diplomats expressed concern that there would not be a deal from this round of Doha talks. On Saturday afternoon, Sayed Akbar Agha, a former Taliban official who now lives in Kabul but keeps close contacts with insurgent leaders, said he had just spoken to them.I have been told that talks are going ahead very well and we are close to an agreement, he said. Whatever the result this time, Mr. Agha said, Afghanistan was never so close to peace in these past years. What is happening now has never happened before.After nearly two decades of a war that has cost tens of thousands of lives and hundreds of billions of dollars, President Trump has made clear his distaste for a continued role in Afghanistan. In December, he proposed the withdrawal of half of Americas 14,000 troops in the coming months.That was before Mr. Khalilzad, an Afghan-American and former ambassador to Afghanistan, had even begun the latest round of direct negotiations with the Taliban, which started on Monday and were initially expected to last only a couple of days, as previous sessions had.Afghan truces up to now have come and gone, and most observers do not believe that the Afghan military can stand against the Taliban without American support. Once the Americans leave, who would guarantee any truce?Ryan Crocker, a former American ambassador to Afghanistan, said it was a rush for the exits.I cant see this as anything more than an effort to put lipstick on what will be a U.S. withdrawal, he said. Mr. Crocker said it reminded him of the Paris peace talks on Vietnam.By going to the table, we basically were telling the North Vietnamese and Viet Cong, We surrender. Were here just to work out the terms. I just cannot see this getting to any better place. We dont have a whole lot of leverage here.In the coming days, there will be much discussion of whether the Americans seem ready to give up too much or the Taliban too little. But no one can gainsay the historic importance of this first step.It will be months or even years before a final peace settlement is reached, but this is the first time there has been actual progress toward the prospect of peace; all earlier efforts to even start talks had failed.The human cost has been high: 2,419 American lives; 1,142 allied lives; at least 62,000 Afghan military and police lives, and possibly as many Taliban lives; more than 24,000 civilian lives over the past decade; and at least twice those numbers on all sides wounded and maimed, many for life.The expense was also enormous. The United States alone has spent $932 billion since 2001 in Afghanistan; its allies and international agencies, many billions more. On reconstruction aid alone, America spent more on Afghanistan than on the entire Marshall Plan to rebuild post-World War II Europe, in todays dollars.Many policymakers  and most Americans  have long agreed that it is time to get out of Afghanistan and hand matters over to the Afghans.The question now is whether that will cost the Afghan government control over the country.This isnt anything other than a way out for us that we can style as something less than losing the war, Mr. Crocker said.Any peace deal acceptable to the West and the Afghan government would mean recognizing the fundamentals of the Afghan Constitution  guaranteeing civil rights that conflict with the Talibans interpretation of Shariah, especially where the rights of women are concerned. Scrapping that constitution would be regarded by many world leaders as a red line that could not be crossed.But the Taliban are unapologetically antidemocratic, believing in an outsize role for the mullahs in governance. Reconciling those two worldviews seems almost impossible, but somehow the shape of an eventual settlement requires just that.President Ghani did not criticize the American-led talks, as he had previously, but pointedly reminded everyone that Mr. Khalilzads mission was to persuade the Taliban to sit down with the Afghan government. Mr. Khalilzad was expected to brief Mr. Ghani before announcing any deal.Nearly everything beyond the basic outlines of the agreement is still on the negotiating table  even the table itself:Will the Taliban sit down for face-to-face talks with the Afghan government? Will there be a residual force of American or other foreign troops, to guard the American Embassy or international facilities, for instance?And what sort of power-sharing arrangement could there be? Will the Taliban be able to field candidates in presidential, provincial and district elections scheduled for July of this year?Interviewed by CNNs Fareed Zakaria at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, as the talks went on, Mr. Ghani declined to describe Doha as a breakthrough and said that difficult negotiations lay ahead.Peace is an imperative. A war that has gone on for 17 years must come to an end, he said.The American peace envoy, Mr. Khalilzad, said he will build on the momentum and resume talks shortly, but did not specify when. That would most likely entail another round of talks between the Americans and the Taliban, until the insurgents change their position on talking to the Afghan government.Follow Rod Nordland and Mujib Mashal on Twitter: @rodnordland and @MujMash.Fahim Abed and Fatima Faizi contributed reporting from Kabul, and Taimoor Shah from Kandahar.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe U.S. should pressure Saudis to respect the human rights of outspoken women.By Nicholas KristofOpinion ColumnistRemember this name: Loujain (pronounced Loo-JAYNE) al-Hathloul. She is 29 years old and a courageous advocate for gender equality  so she is in a Saudi Arabian prison, and reportedly our Saudi allies have tortured her, even waterboarded her.There has properly been global outrage at Saudi Arabias murder of Jamal Khashoggi, a columnist for The Washington Post and resident of Virginia. Jamal was a friend of mine, and I find it infuriating that President Trump and other officials wont hold Saudi Arabia accountable for killing and dismembering him.Still, we cant bring him back. So lets direct equal attention to those still alive  like Hathloul, along with nine other womens rights activists who are also in custody, including some who say they have endured torture.Trump, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Jared Kushner bet big on the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, but they were bamboozled. M.B.S. isnt a great reformer, and he isnt coming clean about Khashoggis murder.Nor is he releasing Hathloul, who, along with others, had peacefully and persistently campaigned for years to allow women the right to drive.In 2014, she was arrested when she tried to drive into Saudi Arabia with a drivers license from the United Arab Emirates, nominally valid also in Saudi Arabia. Then in 2015, Hathloul was one of the first women to run for a seat on a municipal council. (She lost).She moved to the emirates. But in 2017, Saudi security forces effectively kidnapped her and her husband and returned them to the kingdom. The couple have divorced, and while accounts differ, some believe this is because of pressure the government placed on the husband.Shortly before women were allowed to drive last June, the government rearrested Hathloul, along with other womens rights activists who had fought for the right the government was about to grant. She said she had been held in solitary confinement, beaten, waterboarded, given electric shocks, sexually harassed and threatened with rape and murder, her sister, Alia al-Hathloul, who lives in Belgium, wrote in a searing Op-Ed in The Times this month, recounting what Loujain had told their parents when they saw her. My parents then saw that her thighs were blackened by bruises.Despite being threatened with rape and murder and having her body thrown into the sewage system, Hathloul would not stay silent and reported the torture to her parents.Her sister said Loujain was shaking uncontrollably, unable to hold her grip, to walk or sit normally.The other imprisoned women suffered similar treatment, according to Human Rights Watch, Amnesty International and their families. They were said to have been subjected to electric shocks, whippings, forced kissing and hugging, threats of rape and more. Some were tied to a metal bed and flogged.Loujains abuse exemplifies the methods of Saudi thuggish and lawless leadership, hellbent on exacting sadistic vengeance against any citizen who dares to think freely, Sarah Leah Whitson of Human Rights Watch told me. The Saudi people owe a huge debt to Loujain.A government spokesman did not respond to my inquiries about why Hathloul was imprisoned and tortured. A pro-government newspaper did suggest that Hathloul is a traitor who could even deserve to be executed.In recent years, Saudi Arabia has stepped up the pace of executions, with about 150 reported last year. Apparently for the first time, prosecutors have sought the death penalty for a woman who is a nonviolent human rights defender, Israa al-Ghomgham.Trump is right that Saudi Arabia is an important ally. Thats why its important that it have a decent, modernizing leader, rather than one who feuds with neighbors, kidnaps Lebanons prime minister, invades Yemen, murders a journalist and tortures outspoken women.Saudi politics are murky, but there are whispers that the crown prince will not necessarily be elevated to king on the death of his father. Yet Trump, Pompeo and Kushner are acting as M.B.S.s protectors and backers  so the world could be stuck with M.B.S. as a destabilizing and oppressive ruler for the next half century.America doesnt have much leverage to improve human rights in countries like China, Venezuela or Iran. But we have enormous leverage over Saudi Arabia, because it depends on us for its security. Yet Trump, Pompeo and Kushner refuse to use that leverage.I cant find any indication that any official in the Trump administration has even publicly mentioned Hathlouls name or called for her release. So I hope Congress will step up, oversee the relationship and ask tough questions about why we are silent when our close ally waterboards a woman seeking equal rights.Saudi Arabia will never live up to its potential as long as it treats women as second-class citizens. Whats at stake is not only justice but also  stability, economic development and peace in the region.Thus I urge the Nobel Peace Prize committee to consider selecting Hathloul this year.Nicholas Kristof has been a columnist for The Times since 2001. He has won two Pulitzer Prizes, for his coverage of China and of the genocide in Darfur.You can sign up for his free, twice-weeklyemail newsletterand follow him onInstagram.  @NickKristof  Facebook Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byWhile some Republicans suggested the Iowa congressmans views were new to them, Mr. King has a long and documented history of denigrating racial minorities.By Trip GabrielRepresentative Steve King of Iowa, who was stripped of his House committee seats on Monday night after making remarks defending white supremacy, has a long history of racist comments and insults about immigrants.Republicans rarely rebuked him until recently, with some suggesting that Mr. Kings language and views were new to them.This just popped up on Friday, Representative Steve Scalise, the second-ranking House Republican, said on Sunday, when asked if the party would penalize Mr. King for saying, in an interview with The Times, White nationalist, white supremacist, Western civilization  how did that language become offensive?National Republicans courted his political support in Iowa: He was a national co-chairman of Ted Cruzs 2016 presidential effort and of Gov. Kim Reynolds 2018 election. House leadership appointed him chairman of the subcommittee on the Constitution and civil justice. And President Trump boasted in the Oval Office that he raised more money for Mr. King than for anyone else.Yet Mr. King, who won a ninth term in November, has publicly promoted white nationalists and neo-Nazis on Twitter and disparaged nonwhite groups for years. [As Republicans rush to condemn Steve King, some ask: Why not Trump?]Mr. King, in the Iowa State Senate, files a bill requiring schools teach that the United States is the unchallenged greatest nation in the world and that it has derived its strength from  Christianity, free enterprise capitalism and Western civilization.Mr. King is the chief sponsor of a law making English the official language of Iowa.Now in Congress, Mr. King introduces the English Language Unity Act, a bill to make English the official language of the United States.Mr. King sues the Iowa Secretary of State for posting voting information on an official website in Spanish, Laotian, Bosnian and Vietnamese.At a rally in Las Vegas, Mr. King calls the deaths of Americans at the hands of undocumented immigrants a slow-motion Holocaust. He claims that 25 Americans die daily because of undocumented immigrants, an unsupported and illogical leap from government statistics, which years later influences talking points by President Trump.On the House floor, Mr. King demonstrates a model of a 12-foot concrete border wall topped with electrified wire that he designed: We need to do a few other things on top of that wall, and one of them being to put a little bit of wire on top here to provide a disincentive for people to climb over the top or put a ladder there. We could also electrify this wire  We do that with livestock all the time.Mr. King on the House floor, speaking of how law enforcement officers can spot undocumented immigrants:What kind of clothes people wear  what kind of shoes people wear, what kind of accent they have  sometimes its just a sixth sense they cant put their finger on.Mr. King in a speech opposing the Affordable Care Acts mandate to cover contraception:Preventing babies being born is not medicine. Thats not constructive to our culture and our civilization. If we let our birthrate get down below the replacement rate, were a dying civilization.On a panel at the Conservative Political Action Conference with Peter Brimelow, a white nationalist, Mr. King referred to multiculturalism as:A tool for the Left to subdivide a culture and civilization into our own little ethnic enclaves and pit us against each other.Mr. King on why he opposes legal status for Dreamers, who were brought into the country as children:For everyone whos a valedictorian, theres another 100 out there that weigh 130 pounds and theyve got calves the size of cantaloupes because theyre hauling 75 pounds of marijuana across the desert. Those people would be legalized with the same act.Mr. King invites the far-right, anti-Islam Dutch politician Geert Wilders to Washington and appears with him at the Capitol. Mr. Wilders has called Islam not a religion, said the Quran was worse than Mein Kampf, and called for the closing of mosques.Mr. King tweets a selfie with Mr. Wilders in front of a portrait of Winston Churchill. Mr. Wilders praises Mr. King for having the guts to speak out.At the Republican National Convention in July, Mr. King claims that nonwhite groups havent contributed as much as whites to civilization: This whole business does get a little tired. I would ask you to go back through history and figure out where are these contributions that have been made by these other categories of people you are talking about. Where did any other subgroup of people contribute more to civilization?Mr. King to The Washington Post days later: The idea of multiculturalism, that every culture is equal  thats not objectively true  Weve been fed that information for the past 25 years, and were not going to become a greater nation if we continue to do that.In a tweet during a meeting in Amsterdam with Mr. Wilders and Frauke Petry, the leader of Germanys far-right Alternative for Germany party, Mr. King says, Cultural suicide by demographic transformation must end.In October, Marine Le Pen, the leader of Frances far-right party, tweets a picture of her meeting with Mr. King, the first elected American official to meet her.Also in October, Mr. King meets in Austria with leaders of the far-right Freedom Party, including Heinz-Christian Strache and Norbert Hofer. The party was founded in the 1950s by former Nazis.Wilders understands that culture and demographics are our destiny. We cant restore our civilization with somebody elses babies, Mr. King tweets in his endorsement of Mr. Wilders in Dutch elections.On March 14, Mr. King defends the tweet on Breitbart radio: Were watching as Western civilization is shrinking in the face of the massive, epic migration that is pouring into Europe. Thats the core of that tweet. Theyre importing a different culture, a different civilization  and that culture and civilization, the imported one, rejects the host culture. And so they are supplanting Western civilization with Middle Eastern civilization and I say, and Geert Wilders says, Western civilization is a superior civilization  it is the first world.On Iowa talk radio, Mr. King recommends The Camp of the Saints, a racist 1973 novel about an invasion of Europe by nonwhite immigrants.Mr. King tweets agreement with Viktor Orban, Hungarys authoritarian leader: Mixing cultures will not lead to a higher quality of life but a lower one.Mr. King says he does not want Somali Muslims working in meatpacking plants in Iowa: I dont want people doing my pork that wont eat it, let alone hope I go to hell for eating pork chops. Asked by a reporter for HuffPost if he is a white nationalist or white supremacist, Mr. King responds: I dont answer those questions. I say to people that use those kind of allegations: Use those words a million times, because youre reducing the value of them every time, and many of the people that use those words and make those allegations and ask those questions cant even define the words theyre using.In an interview with a web publication in Austria, unzensuriert.at, which is linked to the far-right Freedom Party, Mr. King again praises the novel Camp of the Saints: This narrative should be imprinted into everyones brain. When you are importing people, even importing one single person, you are importing their culture.In the same interview, Mr. King demonstrates familiarity with the Great Replacement conspiracy theory, also known as white genocide, which posits that an international elite, including prominent Jews like George Soros, are plotting to make white populations minorities in Europe and North America. Great replacement, yes, Mr. King says. These people walking into Europe by ethnic migration, 80 percent are young men. They are somebody elses babies.Mr. King endorses a Toronto mayoral candidate, Faith Goldy, who had recited the 14 words used by neo-Nazis and gave an interview to a podcast for the neo-Nazi website The Daily Stormer.The Anti-Defamation League writes to Speaker Paul D. Ryan calling for the censure of Mr. King for endorsing Ms. Goldy. The group also notes that the Austrian Freedom Party is riddled with anti-Semitism and Holocaust trivialization.Representative Steve Stivers, chairman of the Republican House election committee, condemns Mr. King in a tweet: We must stand up against white supremacy and hate in all forms, and I strongly condemn this behavior.Asked on Oct. 21 on WHO-TV in Iowa, What is a white nationalist? Mr. King answers: First of all, I think you have to be white, but then weve got Rachel Dolezal who didnt have to be black to be black. It is a derogatory term today. I wouldnt have thought so maybe a year or two or three ago. But today they use it as a derogatory term and they imply you are a racist. Thats the bottom line for that.White nationalist, white supremacist, Western civilization  how did that language become offensive? Why did I sit in classes teaching me about the merits of our history and our civilization? Mr. King said in an interview with The New York Times published last week.Trip Gabriel is a national correspondent. He covered the past two presidential campaigns and has served as the Mid-Atlantic bureau chief and a national education reporter. He formerly edited the Styles sections. He joined The Times in 1994.  @tripgabriel  Facebook Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byNobody left besides those with no reputation to lose.By Paul KrugmanOpinion ColumnistThere have been many policy disasters over the course of U.S. history. Its hard, however, to think of a calamity as gratuitous, an error as unforced, as the current federal shutdown.Nor can I think of another disaster as thoroughly personal, as completely owned by one man. When Donald Trump told Chuck Schumer and Nancy Pelosi, I will be the one to shut it down, he was being completely accurate  although he went on to promise that Im not going to blame you for it, which was a lie.Still, no man is an island, although Trump comes closer than most. You cant fully make sense of his policy pratfalls without acknowledging the extraordinary quality of the people with whom he has surrounded himself. And by extraordinary, of course, I mean extraordinarily low quality. Lincoln had a team of rivals; Trump has a team of morons.If this sounds too harsh, consider recent economic pronouncements by two members of his administration. Predictably, these pronouncements involve bad economics; thats pretty much a given. Whats striking, instead, is the inability of either man to stay on script; they cant even get their right-wing mendacity right.First up is Kevin Hassett, chairman of Trumps Council of Economic Advisers, who was asked about the plight of federal workers who arent being paid. You dont have to be a public relations expert to know that youre supposed to express some sympathy, whether you feel it or not. After all, there are multiple news reports about transportation security workers turning to food banks, the Coast Guard suggesting its employees hold garage sales, and so on.So the right response involves expressing concern about those workers but placing the blame on Democrats who dont want to stop brown-skinned rapists, or something like that. But no: Hassett declared that its all good, that the workers are actually better off, because theyre getting time off without having to use any of their vacation days.Then consider what Sean Hannity had to say about taxing the rich. Whats that? You say that Hannity isnt a member of the Trump administration? But surely he is in every sense that matters. In fact, Fox News isnt just state TV, its hosts clearly have better access to the president, more input into his decisions, than any of the so-called experts at places like the State Department or the Department of Defense.Anyway, Hannity declared that raising taxes on the wealthy would damage the economy, because rich people wont be buying boats that they like recreationally, and theyre not going to be taking expensive vacations anymore.Um, thats not the answer a conservative is supposed to give. Youre supposed to insist that low taxes on the rich give them an incentive to work really really hard, not make it easier for them to take lavish vacations. Youre supposed to declare that low taxes will induce them to save and spend money building businesses, not help them afford to buy new yachts. Even if your real reason for favoring low taxes is that they let your wealthy friends engage in even more high living, youre not supposed to say that out loud.Again, the point isnt that people in Trumps circle dont care about ordinary American families, and also talk nonsense  thats only to be expected. Whats amazing is that theyre so out of it that they dont know either how to pretend to care about the middle class, or what nonsense to spout in order to sustain that pretense.So whats wrong with Trumps people? Why cant they serve up even some fake populism?There are, I think, two answers, one generic to modern conservatism, one specific to Trump.On the generic point: To be a modern conservative is to spend your life inside what amounts to a cult, barely exposed to outside ideas or even ways of speaking. Inside that cult, contempt for ordinary working Americans is widespread  remember Eric Cantor, the then-House majority leader, celebrating Labor Day by praising business owners. So is worship of wealth. And it can be hard for cult members to remember that you dont talk that way to outsiders.Then theres the Trump effect. Normally working for the president of the United States is a career booster, something that looks good on your rsum. Trumps presidency, however, is so chaotic, corrupt and potentially compromised by his foreign entanglements that anyone associated with him gets tainted  which is why after only two years he has already left a trail of broken men and wrecked reputations in his wake.So who is willing to serve him at this point? Only those with no reputation to lose, generally because theyre pretty bad at what they do. There are, no doubt, conservatives smart and self-controlled enough to lie plausibly, or at least preserve some deniability, and defend Trumps policies without making fools of themselves. But those people have gone into hiding.A year ago I pointed out that the Trump administration was turning into government by the worst and the dumbest. Since then, however, things have gotten even worse and even dumber. And we havent hit bottom yet.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.  @PaulKrugman Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Barry R. PosenProfessor Posen is the author, most recently, of Restraint: A New Foundation for U.S. Grand Strategy.President Trump has many bad ideas. Reconsidering Americas role in NATO isnt one of them.NATO, a military alliance, was formed specifically to prevent the Soviet Union from dominating Europe, whose principal powers  Germany, France, Italy and Britain  had been so devastated by World War II that they were vulnerable to Soviet coercion, subversion or conquest. NATO also became a vehicle for rehabilitating the Axis powers  Germany and Italy  under the victors tutelage.America had an enduring interest in ensuring that the Continent not fall under the domination of a single, capable, hostile power: That could pose a serious threat to America. The Truman administration was clear on this point: The main purpose of stationing American military forces in Europe in the early 1950s was to stay long enough to right the balance of power, not to stay forever.By the 1960s, the balance was restored. Western Europes economies were booming; Britain and France had become nuclear powers; German militarism had been tamed, even as a new, large modern army emerged in West Germany. During the Vietnam War, America was so free of worry about the Soviet threat that it essentially milked its conventional forces in Europe to support its war in Indochina. Its European allies contributed nothing to Americas effort in Vietnam. By 1968, with the collapse of Czechoslovakias government and army, the Soviet-controlled Warsaw Pact alliance also appeared less capable.In the early 1970s, Senator Mike Mansfield, a Montana Democrat, led an effort to cut the American troop presence in Europe. It lost momentum in part because the Soviet Union conducted an ill-fated military buildup, which contributed to its economic failures in the 1980s. Senator Mansfields campaign was also opposed by the Europeans, who preferred to keep their American security blanket, and by President Richard Nixon and his chief foreign affairs adviser, Henry Kissinger, who rejected what he considered congressional meddling in foreign policy. Oddly, troop reductions in Europe would have been consistent with the Nixon Doctrine, which called explicitly for allies to do much more in their own defense.The collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 removed the last vestiges of a major security threat to NATO, and with it, the rationale for the American military presence in Europe. Russias annexation of Crimea and its violent machinations in Eastern Ukraine havent improved its ability to threaten NATO. Instead they have placed Mr. Putin in the penalty box. The European Union, like America, reacted appropriately by imposing punishing sanctions on Russia.The whole misadventure has diminished Russian power. Europeans are able to defend themselves. France and Germany together equal Russias population, enormously outweigh the country economically and outspend it militarily. But organizations dont like going out of business, and NATO was a good brand, making it useful for other projects. So NATO took on a new goal: banishing security competition from all of Europe and its periphery, and bringing liberal democracy to former subjects of the Soviet empire. Instead of being re-evaluated, NATO got bigger. NATOs expansion now requires the United States to defend all the new member states from both conventional and nuclear threats  a tall order given their proximity to Russia and a strategically unnecessary project since they can contribute nothing to American national security.From an organization that could succeed simply by deterring a major military threat, NATO turned into an expansive project to make all of Western Eurasia safe, liberal and democratic  goals that are much more complicated. NATOs wars in Bosnia, Kosovo and Libya all depended on significant American military capability; none produced functioning liberal democracies. Among three of post-Cold War NATOs new members  Hungary, Poland and Bulgaria  democracy is now suffering erosion or is in actual retreat. NATOs 2008 Bucharest summit declaration that Ukraine and Georgia will become members of NATO proved alarming to Russia  and helped pave the way to wars. In other words, NATOs well-intended political project is an expensive failure.Ironically, NATO also encourages fecklessness among its members in ways that can be likened to what financiers call the moral hazard phenomenon, in which excessive insurance, offered for an ostensibly good purpose, promotes risky behavior by those insured.Americas wealthy European allies have underfunded their own militaries, secure in the credibility of Americas commitment. Even the most martial European powers, France and Britain, dont spend enough today to pay for their much-reduced post-Cold War force structures. They barely reach the alliances obligation to spend 2 percent of G.D.P. on defense. France and Germany spend roughly half, and Britain two-thirds, of what the United States does per soldier; unless they have achieved remarkable levels of efficiency, they must be cutting corners.Germany today spends only about 1.25 percent of G.D.P. on defense, leaving the German armed forces a sad remnant of their very capable Cold War incarnation. Until 1990, that army could put a dozen heavily armed divisions into the field a few days after mobilization. Today it would be lucky to get one fully equipped division into the field. Less than half of German military equipment is ready for combat.While European and American politicians and pundits wring their hands about the Russian military threat, European governments and militaries practice business as usual. The dysfunctional turn in European domestic politics seems to be enabled by elites who fear no foreign threats because the United States dutifully promises to take care of them.Finally, NATO helps make American military action abroad too easy. The existing base structure in Europe may facilitate intervention in the greater Middle East  but the greater Middle East is another part of the world where the United States should be doing less militarily. When Washington politicians consider military action there, it would be better if they had to negotiate rather than assume access to European bases. It would force policymakers to take a bit more time to think.Supporters of proposed interventions know that the American public likes the idea of having allies. NATO support helps sell an operation to voters. Europeans can applaud our action, enable our deployment to the theater and contribute small military forces to provide the patina of cost and risk sharing. The Allies did contribute troops  and suffered significant casualties  in the extended Afghan counterinsurgency, but the wars NATO enables are the Americans to win or lose.NATOs founding mission has been achieved and replaced with unsuccessful misadventures. The United States has urgent business at home, and arguably in Asia. Though President Trump has no strategy for returning the European allies to full responsibility for their own futures, the American foreign policy establishment could better spend its time devising such a strategy than defending the counterproductive trans-Atlantic status quo.A reappraisal is long overdue.Barry R. Posen, a professor of political science at M.I.T. and director of its Security Studies Program, is the author, most recently, of Restraint: A New Foundation for U.S. Grand Strategy.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Edward Wong and Ben HubbardRIYADH, Saudi Arabia  In a barnstorming tour that took him to eight countries in one week, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo burned with one central message: The need to counter the greatest threat of all in the Middle East, the Iranian regime and its campaigns of terrorism and destruction, as he put it in Cairo on Thursday.Jetting from capital to capital, meeting with kings, princes and presidents, his goal was to get Arab countries to work together to roll back Iranian influence in the region and take on the militias Iran is backing.But as the trip drew to a close on Monday, it was unclear whether he had made any notable progress on that front. The obstacles toward building such a coalition are formidable.In practice, it will be difficult for the Arab nations to work closely together on anti-Iran policies because of the complexity of relationships in the region, officials and analysts from those countries say. The Iranian-backed militias Mr. Pompeo wants to rein in vary widely and would resist a one-size-fits all solution: Hezbollah is a major force in the government of Lebanon, the groups in Syria work mostly apart from one another in the war zone, and those in Iraq have great influence in the oil-rich south.American officials have had difficulty coordinating their own anti-Iran policy beyond economic sanctions, which Mr. Trump imposed in November after withdrawing from a nuclear arms agreement that the Obama administration and other governments had reached with Iran.Against the wishes of all his top national security officials, Mr. Trump decided last month to withdraw about 2,000 American troops from eastern Syria, which would cede any leverage the Americans had to limit the presence of Iranian forces and Iranian-backed militias there  precisely the goal that Mr. Pompeo was asking Arab partners to take up across the region.And Mr. Pompeo offered no explanation of how he expected other countries to do the job.When asked Monday what the United States wanted Arab nations to do to get rid of the militias, Mr. Pompeo did not give specific answers.He said Iran aimed to dominate five capitals, a reference to the government seats of Iraq, Lebanon, Syria, Yemen and Iran itself.And our effort is to make sure that the Iranian people get control of their capital, and that it becomes a nation that is normal and isnt conducting terror campaigns that are unrivaled anyplace else in the world, he said.In general, Mr. Pompeos message was well received among Sunni Arab leaders. They tend to consider Iran, a Shiite Persian nation, to be a threat.We all have problems with Irans expansionist policies in the region, Jordans foreign minister, Ayman Safadi, said in a news conference with Mr. Pompeo in Amman last week. All Arab countries, and I think the United States too, would want healthy relations based on the principle of nonintervention in the internal affairs of the other, and respecting the sovereignty of other countries.In Cairo, Mr. Pompeo said that Egypt, Oman, Kuwait and Jordan had been instrumental in thwarting Irans efforts to evade sanctions. And he said that Bahrain was working to combat Irans illicit maritime activities in the region.Mr. Pompeo has not yet proposed that Arab nations outside the war zones send troops to fight the militias, though he has left open the possibility of the United States helping piece together an Arab military coalition to move into northeastern Syria as the United States withdraws.In any case, troop deployments could prove to be as ineffective as they have been in Yemen. Since 2015, Saudi Arabia, one of the worlds largest spenders on military hardware, has failed to oust Houthi rebels who are aligned with Iran from the capital of Yemen, the Arab worlds poorest state. The fighting has resulted in the worlds worst humanitarian crisis.The creation of a unified Arab coalition against Iran would require resolving many political, economic and military issues among Arab countries.If you are talking about coordination in certain areas, that is already taking place, but if you want to create a military alliance, an Arab NATO, I think its a nonstarter, said Marwan Muasher, the vice president for studies at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and a former foreign minister of Jordan. The ingredients are not there.He cited a number of factors: disputes between states like Saudi Arabia and Qatar, the inability to integrate Arab armies, the lack of any kind of united command structure and the fact that not all of the United States Arab allies view Iran at the same level of threat.I also dont see a small country like Jordan, with limited resources, participating in a military alliance, Mr. Muasher said. Iran is not seen in a good light among many of the countries of the region, but that is different from participating in a military alliance against it. I dont think this is an idea that will gain a lot of traction in countries other than Saudi Arabia.Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates are leading the anti-Iran charge in the region. Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia has compared Irans supreme leader to Hitler and even threatened to incite violence inside of Iran. This has made him the go-to partner for the Iran hard-liners in the Trump administration. Prince Mohammed has also led a quiet dtente between his kingdom and Israel, which, like Saudi Arabia, views Iran as an archenemy.Many countries in the region do see Iran as a foe, but some, like Egypt and Jordan, do not feel directly threatened by it and would be hesitant to risk confronting it. Smaller Gulf states, like Kuwait, Bahrain and Oman, maintain diplomatic and trade ties with Iran and would be unlikely to join in hostilities against it.Iraq, however, is dominated by Shiite Arabs and shares a long border and deep cultural, religious and political ties with Iran.Trump administration officials have insisted to Iraqi leaders that they begin severing economic ties to Iran, and have urged Saudi Arabia and other Arab nations to help improve Iraqs economy.There are lots of economic things we might do to assist Iraq getting back on its feet, which will permit them to be more independent, have more control, be more sovereign, Mr. Pompeo said Monday.But while the Iraqi government has taken steps to loosen itself from Irans tight embrace, it has shown no inclination to oppose it.Iraq is not a part of the American sanctions system and Iraq is not a part of the system of attacking any state, Prime Minister Adel Abdul Mahdi said in November.Mowaffak al-Rubaie, a former Iraqi national security adviser, said that Mr. Pompeo had tunnel vision when it came to the Middle East.There are a lot of other problems than Iran, but they are obsessed with Iran, he said. If two fish fight in the Tigris River, it is because of Iran.He said Iraq, which waged a long war against Iran in the 1980s and has fought several wars since, had no interest in joining another one.I dont want to be a victim of America versus Iran or Saudi Arabia versus Iran, he said. I dont get anything out of that.Nabil Fahmy, a former Egyptian foreign minister, said that he and many in the Arab world agreed that regional countries should play a greater role in ensuring broad stability. But it will take time for individual Arab countries to develop their own military capabilities as well as some sort of mechanism to allow different states to work together.You build your military and political capacity gradually and you do that with your friends providing support in the meantime, he said. In the absence of that, who will have instant capabilities or bear the paramount, singular responsibility of putting troops in harms way and boots on the ground?Michael Knights, a senior fellow at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy, said that up to now, the United States had taken a calibrated and piecemeal approach to opposing the Iranian militias, and it should continue with that method.Irans support of militias, he said, was a tricky model of expansion to counter.Edward Wong reported from Riyadh, and Ben Hubbard from Beirut, Lebanon. Falih Hassan contributed reporting from Baghdad.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byFact Check During a news conference on Friday, President Trump insisted that most furloughed federal employees supported his wall, that Mexico is paying for it and that it would stop a horde of terrorists from crossing the border. None of that was true. By Linda Qiu and Michael TackettMost federal workers, even those with rent owed and bills due, would gladly forgo their paycheck as a measure of support for his $5.6 billion border wall, President Trump said on Friday.He also noted that Mexico would actually be paying for the wall through a new trade agreement, which at the very least raised the question of why the government had to be shut down over a funding dispute involving American tax dollars if the funding was coming from another country. And then there was a Plan C: He said he could use emergency powers to build the wall. The wall was needed for many reasons, Mr. Trump said. Stopping drug and human trafficking, and a nonspecific reference to a torrent of terrorists and coyotes easily flowing in over the southern border. They drive right in, and they make a left, he said.But there also was sunshine amid the gloom. Mr. Trump spoke of a stunningly positive jobs report and a stock market that soared, at least for a day. Lower gas prices? One person to thank.The purpose of the presidents hastily arranged, hourlong news conference in the Rose Garden was to give his side of the negotiations over a partial government shutdown that stretches into its third week on Saturday. And, for the record, Mr. Trump is not calling the partial closing of the government a shutdown.I dont call it a shutdown, he said. I call it doing what you have to do for the benefit and for the safety of our country.The news conference was freewheeling, and the president seemed in high spirits, even with the government shuttered in many places. Should we keep this going or not? he said.Here are some takeaways and fact-checks. Mr. Trump has called for a concrete wall on the border with Mexico, though he denied it, telling reporters, I said I was going to build a wall. I never said Im going to build a concrete. (Just four days ago, Mr. Trump tweeted that an all concrete Wall was NEVER ABANDONED.)Now, he said, steel might be the preferred material, suggesting that would also help a resurgent steel industry in the United States, and could be preferable for its see-through and more aesthetic qualities. All of the border things that well be building will be done right here in the good old USA by steel companies that were practically out of business when I came into office as president. And now, theyre thriving. Later, he said, the steel industry was almost dead.""Dead"" is an exaggeration. Steel production has been in decline, as has the number of employees in the industry. But the metals industry still employed over 360,000 workers and produced 80 million tons of raw steel in the year before Mr. Trump took office.At any rate, Mr. Trump continued, weve already built a lot of the wall and renovated a tremendous amount of wall. (The Trump administration has replaced some existing barriers with new barriers, and will begin constructing 14 miles of new wall in February. But to date, construction on his border wall has not started.)In his first meeting about a shutdown with Representative Nancy Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer in the Oval Office last month, the president forcefully said that he alone would own the shutdown. On Friday, he was selling shares in it. You can call it the Schumer or the Pelosi or the Trump shutdown, he said. Doesnt make any difference to me. Its just words.Could he reach a compromise with Democrats to end the shutdown by coupling wall funding with a pathway to citizenship for the young immigrants known as Dreamers? Mr. Trump responded that Democrats lost interest as soon as the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit upheld an injunction against his administrations termination of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. (A deal on the program and to avoid an earlier government shutdown in early 2018 faltered last January, after Mr. Trump made vulgar remarks on immigration. The court ruled on the case in November.)That was such a bad decision from the court, Mr. Trump asserted, that even his predecessor, when he signed the DACA, with the executive order, made a statement to the effect, this isnt going to work. (President Barack Obama did not sign an executive order to implement the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program. He announced it as a Department of Homeland Security policy in a speech in 2012. He did not say it would not work, but called it a temporary stopgap.)For federal workers who may need a safety net or financial assistance as they go without pay, Mr. Trump said the safety net is going to be having a strong border, especially because government employees support his wall. (A recent poll of more than 1,400 by Government Executive suggests the opposite: most oppose the shutdown and the wall.) The president said that the new trade deal with Mexico and Canada will yield billions of dollars for this country. That is paying for the wall, he said. Many, many times over. In fact, what we save on the U.S.M.C.A., the new trade deal we have with Mexico and Canada, what we save on that just with Mexico will pay for the wall many times over, just in a period of a year, two years and three years. So I view that as absolutely Mexico is paying for the wall. (Congress has yet to ratify the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, and it does not compel Mexico to pay for the wall. Whatever federal revenue it generates would come from American taxpayers, not Mexico.)And, Mr. Trump said, why shouldnt Mexico pay for the wall through trade, given that we are losing close to $100 billion a year on trade with Mexico. (The United States had a $69 billion trade deficit with Mexico in 2017.)Mr. Trump also took another shot at the North American Free Trade Agreement that the new trade deal seeks to replace, arguing that we lost millions of jobs through Nafta. (The left-leaning Economic Policy Institute estimated that the United States lost 850,000 jobs because of Nafta. The Times was unable to find any credible estimate that supported Mr. Trumps millions figure.)Asked about ongoing trade talks with Beijing, Mr. Trump reported that China is paying us tremendous tariffs. (The United States does not send China a bill for the cost of tariffs, which are often passed on to American importers or consumers.)China, by the way, is the biggest beneficiary of Apple, so Mr. Trump is not concerned that the company reduced its revenue forecast this week, sending stocks tumbling. Nonetheless, Mr. Trump said Apple is investing $350 billion because of what we did with taxes and the incentives that we created in the United States. (Apple was already on track to spend $275 billion in the United States over the next five years. After a $38 billion tax payment, the companys investment would be roughly $37 billion.)After suggesting that terrorists were pouring into the country over wall-less portions of the border, Mr. Trump turned to Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, for specifics. She said there were 3,000 such terrorists that we know about, but said she could not divulge other information because it was classified.(The 3,000 figure referred to special interest aliens stopped at the border, a term that applies to people from any country that has exported or produced one terrorist, according to the libertarian Cato Institute. Besides this ambiguous figure, Mr. Trump has yet to provide evidence for his claim. The State Department said in a September report there is no credible evidence that terrorist groups had sent operatives to enter the United States through Mexico. The report warned of the vulnerability, but said it was more likely terrorist groups would seek other means of entry.)Mr. Trump said that the government would have to use its powers of eminent domain to take private land to build the wall when owners would not agree to sell. He said thats how interstates, schools and other public buildings have been constructed.Many in his base disagree, especially in Texas where private property rights are often paramount.Mr. Trump said, mostly in jest, that he had raised the matter of impeachment with Ms. Pelosi, asking her why she did not use the border security issue as grounds. And Nancy said were not looking to impeach you. I said thats good, Nancy, thats good.He added, You cant impeach somebody that is doing a great job. Thats the way I view it.Linda Qiu is a fact-check reporter, based in Washington. She came to The Times in 2017 from the fact-checking service PolitiFact.  @ylindaqiu Michael Tackett covers national politics. He has written about politics for more than 30 years and has covered six presidential elections.  @tackettdc Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Charlie Savage and Robert PearWASHINGTON  A coalition of 16 states, including California and New York, on Monday challenged President Trump in court over his plan to use emergency powers to spend billions of dollars on his border wall.The lawsuit is part of a constitutional confrontation that Mr. Trump set off on Friday when he declared that he would spend billions of dollars more on border barriers than Congress had granted him. The clash raises questions over congressional control of spending, the scope of emergency powers granted to the president, and how far the courts are willing to go to settle such a dispute.The suit, filed in Federal District Court in San Francisco, argues that the president does not have the power to divert funds for constructing a wall along the Mexican border because it is Congress that controls spending.[Read the full lawsuit here.]Xavier Becerra, the attorney general of California, said in an interview that the president himself had undercut his argument that there was an emergency on the border.Probably the best evidence is the presidents own words, he said, referring to Mr. Trumps speech on Feb. 15 announcing his plan: I didnt need to do this, but Id rather do it much faster.Heres how President Trumps border wall fits on the list of emergency declarations.The lawsuit, California et al. v. Trump et al., says that the plaintiff states are going to court to protect their residents, natural resources and economic interests. Contrary to the will of Congress, the president has used the pretext of a manufactured crisis of unlawful immigration to declare a national emergency and redirect federal dollars appropriated for drug interdiction, military construction and law enforcement initiatives toward building a wall on the United States-Mexico border, the lawsuit says.Congress is on its own separate track to challenge the presidents declaration. The House of Representatives, now controlled by Democrats, may take a two-prong approach when it returns from a recess. One would be to bring a lawsuit of its own.Lawmakers could also vote to override the declaration that an emergency exists, but it is doubtful that Congress has the votes to override Mr. Trumps certain veto, leaving the courts a more likely venue.Joining California and New York are Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, Hawaii, Illinois, Maine, Maryland, Michigan, Minnesota, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, Oregon and Virginia. All have Democratic governors but one  Maryland, whose attorney general is a Democrat  and most have legislatures controlled by Democrats.[Read the first edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]The dispute stems from steps Mr. Trump said he would take after lawmakers granted him only $1.375 billion for new border barriers, legislation he signed last week to avoid another government shutdown.Mr. Trump asserted the power to tap three additional pots of money on his own: $600 million from a Treasury Department asset forfeiture fund for law enforcement priorities; about $2.5 billion from a military antidrug account, most of which would first be siphoned from other military programs the Pentagon has yet to identify; and $3.6 billion in military construction funds he said he could redirect by invoking an emergency-powers statute.Presidents have invoked emergency-powers statutes nearly five dozen times since Congress enacted the National Emergencies Act of 1976, but never before has one been used to make an end-run around Congress after it rejected funding for a particular policy.But as the debate over Mr. Trumps action shifts to courtrooms, legal experts warned that its fate may turn less on such high constitutional principle and more on complex legal issues  from whether plaintiffs can establish that the case is properly before the courts, to how to interpret several statutes.Even though Trumps political maneuver to get around an uncooperative Congress looks like it stretches the Constitution, the questions presented in court will raise ordinary and complicated issues of administrative law, said Peter M. Shane, an Ohio State University law professor and co-author of a separation-of-powers casebook.Two cases had already been filed after Mr. Trumps announcement on Feb. 15  one by the nonprofit watchdog group Public Citizen, representing several Texas landowners and a Texas environmental group, and the other a case jointly brought by the Center for Biological Diversity, Defenders of Wildlife and the Animal Legal Defense Fund.At least two other lawsuits are expected to be filed later this week. The American Civil Liberties Union has announced its intention to file a case, but has not yet publicly identified its client. The other case will be brought by Protect Democracy, another watchdog group, and the Niskanen Center, a center-right policy institute, on behalf of El Paso County and the Border Network for Human Rights.Many critics have challenged whether an emergency truly exists on the Southern border that a wall would solve, pointing to government data showing that the number of people crossing illegally has dropped significantly over the past generation and that most drugs are smuggled through ports of entry.The president has argued, without proof, that the emergency declaration is warranted because the migrants invading the United States across the Mexico border have caused epidemics of crime and drug use.Legal specialists expected the Justice Department to urge a court not to consider facts about the border or Mr. Trumps words, but rather to defer to the presidents decision. The courts have a long history of being reluctant to substitute their own judgment for the presidents about a security threat.The Trump administration will have a powerful argument to invoke: In the National Emergencies Act, Congress defined no standard for what conditions have to be met before a president may determine that a qualifying crisis exists.But before a judge could weigh whether Mr. Trump invoked the statute legitimately, he or she would have to decide whether the dispute is properly before the court in the first place.Plaintiffs will need to establish standing by showing that they are suffering some particular injury from what Mr. Trump is doing. Several of the lawsuits involve people who own land or represent communities along the Mexican border in Texas, where Mr. Trump has put the focus of his emphasis on the need for more barriers.But it is not clear whether any of the fencing will be built in California or New Mexico, two of the states in the lawsuit, and it certainly will not be built in other states involved in the litigation, like New York, New Jersey or Hawaii.Mr. Becerra, Californias attorney general, suggested that plaintiffs in the states lawsuits have standing for reasons that are unrelated to whether any portions of Mr. Trumps wall will be built in their territory, arguing that the presidents unconstitutional action could cause harms in many parts of the country.Heres what we know about whats happening at the border.People in California and other plaintiff states could lose funding that they paid for with their tax dollars, money that was destined for drug interdiction or for the Department of Defense for military men and women and military installations, he said in the interview.Further complicating matters, the administration has said it intends to spend the funds in sequence, starting with the $1.375 billion Congress appropriated, and reaching the emergency-power military-construction fund last. The Justice Department is likely to argue that if no disputed spending is imminent, the case is not ripe for litigation and should be dismissed.Ian Bassin, the executive director of Protect Democracy, said that El Paso County would probably argue that its economy was being harmed by Mr. Trumps emergency declaration because it wrongfully signaled to businesses and potential tourists that they should stay away.The Justice Department declined to comment on the wave of lawsuits. Mr. Trump has said he expected to be sued and to lose in lower courts, but he predicted he would eventually prevail before the Supreme Court.But plaintiffs can also challenge whether the administration is interpreting several statutes correctly.The provision that gives the secretary of defense authority to transfer some Pentagon money into the antidrug account Mr. Trump is then planning to tap, for example, says its authority may be used in no case where the item for which funds are requested has been denied by the Congress  raising the question of whether extra funding for border barriers counts as such a forbidden item.And the emergency-powers statute Mr. Trump plans to use permits military construction spending in an emergency that requires the use of the armed forces for projects to support such use. That has been used before to build up foreign military bases in a war effort, but litigants challenge whether a permanent wall to help civilian agencies police the border qualifies under that wording.Judges will certainly be aware of the larger institutional context when they address those technical issues, but that awareness will not, by itself, determine how the legal questions get resolved, Mr. Shane said.An earlier version of this article misidentified one of the states involved in the litigation. Washington State is not a party to the suit.Sheryl Stolberg contributed reporting.Follow Charlie Savage on Twitter: @charlie_savage.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byGood Tuesday. Breaking: Karl Lagerfeld, the influential fashion designer and longtime creative director of Chanel, has died at 85. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)As McKinsey & Company advised some of the biggest companies in the world, the NYT reports, it may have had a vested interest in the outcome, through a little-known in-house hedge fund that holds stakes in some of the firms clients.Little about the fund, the McKinsey Investment Office, is public. A large part of its approximately $12.3 billion in holdings is concealed behind a tangle of shell companies in an island tax haven in the English Channel, the NYT reports. As a result, any intersections between McKinseys consulting work and the funds investments are largely hidden.The office took a stake in Valeant, the drug maker that was advised by McKinsey and is accused of improperly raising pharmaceutical prices. It also invested in Puerto Rican bonds while the firm advised the island on how to deal with its debt.McKinsey says theres no conflict of interest.  It insists the office is run separately from its consulting operations, and that 90 percent of its funds are run by outside managers.But it faces increasing skepticism about that from Congress and in various lawsuits. A federal judge in Virginia last month reopened a coal-company bankruptcy case after learning that McKinsey had not disclosed, as required by law, that it was also among the companys secured creditors, through MIO, the NYT reports.A coalition of 16 states, including California and New York, sued the Trump administration yesterday over his plan to use emergency powers to spend billions of dollars on a border wall, Charlie Savage and Robert Pear of the NYT report: The clash raises questions over congressional control of spending, the scope of emergency powers granted to the president, and how far the courts are willing to go to settle such a dispute. Xavier Becerra, the attorney general of California, said in an interview that the president himself had undercut his argument that there was an emergency on the border. The lawsuit, California et al. v. Trump et al., says that the plaintiff states are going to court to protect their residents, natural resources and economic interests. Plaintiffs will need to establish standing by showing that they are suffering some particular injury from what Mr. Trump is doing. Several of the lawsuits involve people who own land or represent communities along the Mexican border in Texas, where Mr. Trump has put the focus of his emphasis on the need for more barriers.After a series of discussions between America and China in Beijing last week that President Trump called very productive, negotiators reopen their conversations in Washington this week.Whats happening: Negotiations kick off today. Then on Thursday and Friday, Vice Premier Liu He of China will meet with the U.S. trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, according to Bloomberg.What to expect: The Trump administration is racing to strike a deal that will result in long-term reforms, according to the WSJ, which notes that such a pact would prove that tariffs are an effective battering ram to open markets around the world.But its not done yet. Despite Mr. Trump tweeting that big progress being made on soooo many different fronts! in these trade negotiations so far, the WSJ reports that people briefed on the negotiations said big outstanding differences remain.More trade news: Why Mr. Trump may want to keep car tariffs in his back pocket. HSBC says the U.S.-China trade war is why it missed its profit targets. With just over a week to go before a crucial vote, the British prime minister is facing shifting groupings in Parliament and a difficult diplomatic mission to the E.U.Britains parties are splitting. Seven lawmakers have left Labour, the main opposition party, and formed a new Independent Group that might push for another referendum on Brexit. While initial reactions were largely unimpressed, the Telegraph reports that their ranks could swell, and that some members of Mrs. Mays Conservative party may also join.And Mrs. May is running out of time. There are nine days left until a parliamentary vote that could seize control of the Brexit process from her. So this week, Bloomberg reports, she is mounting a last-ditch diplomatic push: The British prime minister is planning to meet European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker this week. Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt will travel to Berlin, Brussels and Copenhagen, while Brexit Secretary Steve Barclay is continuing his dialogue with the E.U.s chief negotiator, Michel Barnier. Attorney General Geoffrey Cox  a key voice in the Brexit debate inside Cabinet  will set out in a speech expected on Tuesday how the most contentious part of the Brexit deal, the so-called backstop plan for the Irish border, could be changed.But the E.U. isnt budging yet. We are happy to revisit anything that would clarify the situation without reopening the withdrawal agreement, a spokesman for the European Commission, Margaritis Schinas, said.More Brexit news: The Japanese automaker Honda plans to close its plant in Swindon, England, which employs 3,500 people, though it didnt blame Brexit. Wall Street banks are moving out of London  but not to any single European financial capital.A British parliamentary committee issued a scathing report yesterday that accuses Facebook of breaking data privacy and competition laws and calls for tighter regulations, Adam Satariano of the NYT reports: The parliamentary report recommends the creation of a British watchdog to oversee the technology industry, similar to the countrys approach to regulating media companies. Companies like Facebook should not be allowed to behave like digital gangsters in the online world, considering themselves to be ahead of and beyond the law, the report argues. Mr. Satariano also notes that the report suggested legally requiring Facebook and other large internet platforms to remove what the government determines to be harmful content, or risk fines or other punishments. Facebook may not be worried. The committee cant change regulations on its own, Mr. Satariano notes, while Alex Webb of Bloomberg Opinion points out that Britains divorce from the European Union could seriously impair its capacity to rein in the giants of U.S. tech.More Facebook news: Why its getting serious about building its own A.I. chips. And why researchers are worried about how Facebook promotes Groups.Index funds, with low fees and broad exposure to the markets, are supposed to be one of the best ways to play the stock market. But Robert Jackson Jr., an S.E.C. commissioner, and Steven Davidoff Solomon of the University of California, Berkeley, point out problems with those funds in an NYT Op-Ed: The firms that devise these indexes face little regulatory scrutiny and can face significant conflicts of interest, which have the potential to harm American investors. There certainly exists potential for manipulation. Index providers generally have wide leeway when choosing the individual companies that make up their indexes and how they are weighted. Thats why were calling on the Securities and Exchange Commission to study this issue and make recommendations, if necessary, to Congress. Lawmakers must take a more active role in overseeing how index providers shape how trillions of Americans investment dollars are allocated.Independent venture capital funds like Sequoia and Andreessen Horowitz may grab headlines, but corporate investment funds have quietly been investing faster than ever, according to a report by CB Insights. Here are some highlights:Corporate V.C.s broke records in 2018, putting $53 billion into 2,740 deals worldwide, a high on both measures.They tended to spend more than noncorporate V.C.s. The average corporate venture deal size was $26.3 million, compared to $21.8 million for a standard V.C. transaction.Companies are rushing to set up funds. The number of corporate V.C. funds investing for the first time reached 264 last year, up 35 percent from 2017 and over 300 percent from 2013.China is playing a big role. Two of the top five most active corporate V.C. funds last year were Baidu.ventures and Legend Capital, despite trade tensions between Washington and Beijing. (The most active was GV, Alphabets early-stage venture arm.)The law firm Kasowitz Benson Torres will announce as soon as today that it has hired Kevin Arquit, a leading antitrust lawyer in the U.S., from Weil, Gotshal & Manges to lead its antitrust and competition team.Mr. Arquits background: He worked at the Federal Trade Commission from 1986 to 1992, where he eventually become the director of its bureau of competition. Then he went into private practice, working on matters like DirecTVs sale to AT&T and the defense of the poultry producer Pilgrims Pride in a price-fixing lawsuit.Whats ahead in antitrust: Mr. Arquit told DealBook that he thinks things are going to become more aggressive. He sees more companies going to court against regulators like the Justice Department and the F.T.C., which he says have become more demanding. In some of those cases, its become so extreme, he said, pointing to the Justice Departments handling of the AT&T-Time Warner deal. He added, The only way to deal with that is to push back.Ken Hitchner, the chairman and C.E.O. of Goldman Sachss Asia Pacific operations, is reportedly retiring.Rod Rosenstein is expected to leave the Justice Department next month.Apple hired Sam Jadallah, the C.E.O. of a failed smart lock start-up, reportedly to lead a smart-home initiative.Deals Two of the biggest investors in SoftBanks Vision Fund, Saudi Arabia and Abu Dhabi, are reportedly unhappy with how its being run. And credit ratings agencies are worried about SoftBanks debt levels. (WSJ, Business Insider) Navient, the student loan company, rejected a $3.2 billion takeover bid by Canyon Capital and Platinum Equity. (CNBC) Tiger Global has reportedly sold its stake in Barclays, leaving the British bank without a key ally as it fends off the activist investor Edward Bramson. (FT) How Mithril Capital, part of Peter Thiels Silicon Valley empire, turned into a mess. (Recode) Might James Dolan finally sell the New York Knicks? (Daily News)Politics and policy Barack Obama is quietly advising potential Democratic presidential contenders  but is unlikely to endorse one. (NYT) How Senator Elizabeth Warrens wealth tax would work. (Upshot) Big-money Democratic donors reportedly favor Joe Biden for president in 2020. (Fox Business) Senator Kamala Harris defended her support of the Green New Deal and Medicare for All, but said she wasnt a democratic socialist. (NYT)Tech A shake-up at Apple suggests services, not smartphones, are its future focus. (WSJ) How Amazon might expand without a New York campus. And how its rebooting its movie division. (WSJ, NYT) Huaweis founder called U.S. charges against the company and his daughter politically motivated. Ericssons C.E.O. said that fears about Huaweis hardware could slow down Europes 5G rollout, but British intelligence officials say the companys equipment poses only a manageable risk of Chinese spying. (NYT, FT) Australia blamed a sophisticated state actor for hacking its Parliaments computer system. Meanwhile Chinese and Iranian hackers have renewed attacks on U.S. companies. (NYT)Best of the rest U.S. companies now have to disclose operating leases on their balance sheets, potentially adding $3 trillion to corporate Americas liabilities. (CNBC) Why Senator Marco Rubios plan to tax stock buybacks might be seriously flawed  and why they will be a huge topic for the 2020 elections. (National Review, Axios) Americans are defaulting on car loans in record numbers. (Axios) Contradictory data is confusing economists. (WSJ) Most Americans, in every state except Vermont, would fail the U.S. citizenship exam. (Axios)Thanks for reading! Well see you tomorrow.Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Choe Sang-HunSEOUL, South Korea  North Korea on Friday withdrew its staff from the joint liaison office it has operated with South Korea since September, signaling a hardening of its position toward the South weeks after the failed summit meeting between the Norths leader, Kim Jong-un, and President Trump.North Korean staff at the liaison office in Kaesong, a North Korean town just north of the two countries border, packed up and left on Friday, saying they had been ordered to do so, the Souths Ministry of National Unification said. They did not ask their South Korean counterparts to leave, the ministry said.We consider the North Koreans decision regrettable and hope that they will return as early as possible so the liaison office can resume its normal operation, the ministry said in a statement.It was the Norths latest show of discontent since the talks in Hanoi, Vietnam, between Mr. Kim and Mr. Trump over the Norths nuclear arms program ended without a deal. North Korea blamed what it called an atmosphere of hostility and mistrust created by Washington for the breakdown in negotiations.But the North has also expressed dissatisfaction with South Korea, which has tried to act as a mediator in the talks. At a March 15 news conference in Pyongyang, the Norths capital, a North Korean official called South Korea a player, not an arbiter because it is an ally of the United States.The opening of the liaison office in September was seen as a significant moment for the Koreas, because it established their first channel for full-time, person-to-person contact since an armistice halted the Korean War. The office has been open five days a week, with staff from both countries living at the compound and on call around the clock. They work on separate floors and meet when there is an issue to discuss.South Korean officials saw the office as a potential first step toward the Koreas establishing diplomatic missions in each others capitals.The Norths pullout does not leave the Koreas without means to communicate. Their governments and militaries also maintain telephone hotlines. But those have been switched off and on again over the years, depending on the political climate.The withdrawal was a setback for the Souths president, Moon Jae-in, who has devoted much political capital to coaxing the North into dialogue. The Koreas agreed to open the liaison office when he and Mr. Kim held their first summit meeting in April.Since the abrupt end to the Hanoi talks, questions have been raised in the South about Mr. Moons role in the American-North Korean dialogue, with critics arguing that he had oversold Mr. Kims willingness to give up its nuclear arms.In Hanoi, Mr. Kim asked Mr. Trump to remove punishing sanctions against the North, the most potent leverage Washington has. In exchange, Mr. Kim offered to dismantle a single nuclear complex, a step that would fall far short of crippling his nuclear program. Many analysts believe the North has at least one clandestine uranium-enrichment plant, in addition to keeping its nuclear warheads and ballistic missiles in secret locations.After the Hanoi meeting, Mr. Moon said he would continue to act as a mediator. But North Korea and the United States have not been eager to take him up on that, instead addressing each other directly and insisting that the other side back down.Mr. Moons National Security Council met on Friday to discuss the Norths pullout from the liaison office.As the negotiations with Washington have stalled, North Korea has expressed increasing frustration with South Korea, denouncing it for not moving ahead on proposed joint economic projects, such as the reopening of an industrial complex in Kaesong. But South Korea could not push forward with those projects until sanctions against the North were lifted.Since Mr. Kim returned from Hanoi without badly needed sanctions relief, analysts have feared that North Korea might resume weapons tests in a bid to gain more leverage.On Thursday, the United States Treasury Department imposed new sanctions on two Chinese shipping companies that it said had helped North Korea evade international sanctions.But on Friday, President Trump announced on Twiter that he was withdrawing these new sanctions  because President Trump likes Chairman Kim, and he doesnt think these sanctions will be necesary, said Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary.At the March 15 news conference, the North Korean official, Vice Foreign Minister Choe Son-hui, threatened to suspend negotiations with Washington and said Mr. Kim would soon decide whether to resume nuclear and missile tests, which it has not carried out in over a year. North Korea has begun calling key ambassadors home, leading to speculation that some sort of announcement is coming.The latest moves by the North may signal that North Korea is considering a shift in its negotiating strategy and foreign policy, said Cheong Seong-chang, an analyst at the Sejong Institute in South Korea.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisBy Julie Hirschfeld Davis and Peter BakerWASHINGTON  Before it became the chief sticking point in a government shutdown drama that threatens to consume his presidency at a critical moment, President Trumps promise to build a wall on the southwestern border was a memory trick for an undisciplined candidate.As Mr. Trump began exploring a presidential run in 2014, his political advisers landed on the idea of a border wall as a mnemonic device of sorts, a way to make sure their candidate  who hated reading from a script but loved boasting about himself and his talents as a builder  would remember to talk about getting tough on immigration, which was to be a signature issue in his nascent campaign.How do we get him to continue to talk about immigration? Sam Nunberg, one of Mr. Trumps early political advisers, recalled telling Roger J. Stone Jr., another adviser. Were going to get him to talk about hes going to build a wall.Talk Mr. Trump did, and the line drew rapturous cheers from conservative audiences, thrilling the candidate and soon becoming a staple of campaign speeches. Chants of Build the wall! echoed through arenas throughout the country.Now, Mr. Trumps fixation with a border wall  the material embodiment of his keep-them-out immigration agenda  has run headlong into the new realities of divided government, pitting him against Democrats who reject the idea out of hand. The impasse is particularly remarkable given that even some immigration hard-liners do not regard the wall as their highest priority and fear that Mr. Trumps preoccupation with it will prompt him to cut a deal that trades a relatively ineffectual measure for major concessions on immigration.Ive always thought it created a danger that he would trade almost anything in order to get the wall  I think thats still a potential danger, said Mark Krikorian, the executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, a group that argues for less immigration. Im still worried about that now.That fear has been realized at times when Mr. Trump has explored a deal with Democrats on granting permanent legal status for undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children, known as Dreamers. The president has always walked away at the last moment from committing to preserving the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA, but on Friday, FAIR, an anti-immigration group, warned him again that it would be a mistake.To many conservative activists who have pressed for decades for sharp reductions in both illegal and legal immigration  and some of the Republican lawmakers who are allied with them  a physical barrier on the border with Mexico is barely relevant, little more than a footnote to a long list of policy changes they believe are needed to fix a broken system.The disconnect is at the heart of the dilemma facing Mr. Trump as he labors to find a way out of an impasse that has shuttered large parts of the government and cost 800,000 federal employees their pay. Having spent more than four years  first as a candidate and then as president  whipping his core supporters into a frenzy over the idea of building a border wall, Mr. Trump finds himself in a political box of his own making.Heres how much the proposed border deal would add to existing barriers.In transforming the wall into a powerful emblem of his anti-immigration message, Mr. Trump has made the proposal politically untouchable for Democrats, who have steadfastly refused to fund it, complicating the chances of any compromise.As a messaging strategy, it was pretty successful, Mr. Krikorian said. The problem is, you got elected; now what do you do? Having made it his signature issue, Trump handed the Democrats a weapon against him.The dynamic has been on vivid display this past week as Mr. Trump has argued that there can be no deal to reopen the government unless his wall is paid for, while Democrats, now in control of the House, have refused in ever sharper terms.A wall is an immorality  its not who we are as a nation, Speaker Nancy Pelosi said on Thursday. This is not a wall between Mexico and the United States that the president is creating here; its a wall between reality and his constituents, his supporters.Last month, in private comments to Democratic lawmakers after an Oval Office confrontation with Mr. Trump, Ms. Pelosi said the wall was like a manhood thing for him.Yet it has also become an outsize symbol in the other direction for Democrats, many of whom supported at least some sort of barrier along the border in the past but now cast Mr. Trumps wall as a travesty. Sixty-four Democrats in the House and 26 in the Senate voted in 2006 for the Secure Fence Act, which provided for hundreds of miles of fencing along the border. Among them were Senators Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton, Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Chuck Schumer.The only things that have changed is the situation at the border is worse and Donald Trump got elected, said Kellyanne Conway, the presidents counselor.Ms. Conway said Mr. Trump had become so committed to a wall because it would not only prevent the entry of many illegal immigrants and stem the flow of drugs, but also discourage migrants from coming in the first place.The reason hes focused on the wall is he thinks you need a very robust physical barrier at the border that you cant climb over, slide under, drive through or walk around, she said. He believes its got to be something thats a deterrent that stops people from taking these perilous journeys.Beyond the symbolism, Democrats now argue that a wall is an expensive and ineffective means of curbing illegal immigration. The majority of undocumented immigrants are people who overstay visas, not people who sneak across the border. A report released in March by Democrats on the Senate Homeland Security Committee found that Border Patrol agents on the front lines said they needed more technology and additional personnel to curb illegal immigration and drug traffic, with less than one half of one percent mentioning a wall.Mr. Schumer, now the Senate Democratic leader, has insisted for two years that any spending agreements contain language barring federal money for Mr. Trumps wall. Republican leaders went along each time, even as the president became increasingly irate, once coming close to vetoing a spending package on the day of the White House signing ceremony.While most Republicans refuse to say so publicly for fear of angering Mr. Trump, many share the view that the wall is only a piece  and nowhere near the most important one  of a broader set of actions needed to overhaul the immigration system, including cuts to legal immigration, tighter standards for granting asylum and better enforcement.Mick Mulvaney, Mr. Trumps acting chief of staff, gave voice to that position in 2015, when he was a congressman from South Carolina, telling a local radio station that Mr. Trump, at the time a presidential candidate, had an overly simplistic view of tackling immigration.The fence is an easy thing to sell politically, Mr. Mulvaney said then. Its an easy thing for someone who doesnt follow the issue very closely to say, Oh, well, that will just solve everything, build the fence. The fence doesnt solve the problem.Just to say build the darn fence and have that be the end of an immigration discussion is absurd and almost childish, Mr. Mulvaney said.John F. Kelly, Mr. Trumps former chief of staff, enraged Mr. Trump last year when he privately told a group of Democratic lawmakers that the president had not been fully informed when he proposed a border wall during his campaign, and had since evolved under Mr. Kellys tutelage. The Wall is the Wall, the president responded in an angry tweet contradicting his top aide.To be honest, its not a wall, Mr. Kelly said in an interview with The Los Angeles Times last month as he prepared to leave the White House, adding that the administration had abandoned the idea of a solid concrete wall early on. His comments prompted another irate tweet from Mr. Trump. An all concrete Wall was NEVER ABANDONED, he wrote.Mr. Trump himself has at other times said he is not necessarily wedded to a concrete wall but open to different forms of barriers at different points along the border, including steel slats. I never said, Im going to build a concrete wall, he said on Friday, rewriting history. I said Im going to build a wall.NumbersUSA, another conservative group that presses for stricter immigration policies, circulated an article last month suggesting that Mr. Trump drop his wall demand in favor of a plan to mandate that all employers use E-Verify, an electronic system that checks immigration status for prospective employees.The wall has sucked political capital from the pursuit of other, and arguably better, means to deter illegal immigrants, wrote Heather Mac Donald of the Manhattan Institute.Yet Mr. Trump has tethered himself to the wall and shows no sign of letting go.Ann Coulter, who along with Rush Limbaugh, Matt Drudge and other conservative commentators has pressed Mr. Trump to live up to his campaign promise, said the focus on the wall was not to be to the exclusion of other policies aimed at stemming illegal immigration.We want that stuff too  but we also want a wall, she said in an email on Friday. The chant at every campaign rally wasnt, Enforce E-Verify! Tax remittances! she added, referring to a proposal to tax cash payments sent by immigrants to their families in Mexico and Central America.Advisers said the president became absorbed by the idea of a wall because it was the most memorable and tangible promise he made while stumping for the White House in 2016.He wants to call it a wall because thats what he campaigned on, said Christopher Ruddy, the chief executive of Newsmax and a friend of Mr. Trumps. Hes very obsessed about carrying out his campaign promises  I think to a degree thats unhealthy  but thats important to him, and thats not a bad thing.Mr. Ruddy and some other advisers argue that Mr. Trump has more room to maneuver than he thinks, because his base would accept his word that some form of additional security along the border was the equivalent of a wall in terms of effectiveness.Listening to Rush Limbaugh and Ann Coulter on this is a mistake, Mr. Ruddy said. I dont think the presidents base moves even one inch from him even if he doesnt get a wall. They know where his heart is, they know where his mind is.Michael DAntonio, a biographer of Mr. Trump, said the wall appealed to the builder and brander in him. I think he hears the beep, beep, beep of a cement truck backing up and the product being poured and the wall rising, Mr. DAntonio said. He can grasp that stuff. He loves it.It would be a presidential legacy that future generations could see and touch, an accomplishment that would last for ages. I think hed like it being called the Great Wall of Trump, Mr. DAntonio said, with a plaque to the president who built it every mile or so.The simplicity of the concept made it a powerful sales pitch on the campaign trail. Its a four-letter thing, Mr. DAntonio said. Its an idea that can be expressed in a single word, and I think that has great appeal to him as a marketer. Its sort of crooked Hillary or lock her up, but its even better.OpinionBruce AckermanAdvertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Maureen DowdOpinion ColumnistWASHINGTON  I got a call at 3 p.m. on Friday from the Washington electric company telling me that a manhole in front of my house was smoking, that the underground cable to my house had burned up because it was old and that all the power in my house was out.I cant come home now, I told the electric guy. I was extremely busy doing what everyone else in town was doing  nothing. Waiting. My house was the least of it  the whole city was short-circuiting.After word spread that Robert Mueller was going to deliver his report to the Justice Department at noon on Friday, a fog of anxiety crept in on little cat feet. (Sorry, Carl Sandburg.) After the president flew off to Mar-a-Lago, the skies darkened and rain pelted down.We drank coffee and waited.We ate burgers and waited.We watched basketball and waited for Muellers March Madness.All day, cable chatterers ranted about this being a significant moment in American history, but no one was sure yet what the significance was. As William Goldman once said of Hollywood, Nobody knows anything. And as Tom Petty sang, The waiting is the hardest part.Democrats yearned to have Mueller scream Collusion! like Marlon Brando once screamed Stella! And come to the podium to announce: This is a real national emergency. The president is a Russian agent and needs to go immediately, along with his family.They wished Bobby Boy Scout would go up to the Capitol and act like Rachel McAdamss Regina George in Mean Girls, when she strides down the halls of the school scattering pages into the air that she had copied from the dishy Burn Book.No chance. The 74-year-old, an Ivy League graduate and a decorated Marine in Vietnam, is so meticulous that he would not even deviate to wear a blue shirt when he ran the F.B.I., seeing that as compromising his integrity. He has run the only disciplined, airtight operation in the undisciplined, leaky Trump era.Not even Rudy Giuliani, the presidents lawyer, knew what was happening when The Timess Katie Rogers tracked him down at the Trump hotel at 1:30 p.m., as he sat at a table in the lobby and worked his cellphone trying to get information.No one, from the president on down, knew exactly when the report would come or what it would say. With his usual bravado about his base, Trump told Foxs Maria Bartiromo that people will not stand for it if the report was damning.All we really knew was that this was a pivotal moment, not only for Trump but also for his Javert. If the special counsel delivered a weak gruel, after all the time, money, newsprint and digital space lavished on it, people would demand to know why he hadnt pulled the plug long ago.By Friday morning, White House officials had been feeling better and Democrats who had once fantasized that Mueller would put Trump in a jumpsuit to match his hair began to emphasize that it was their congressional investigations and New York prosecutors that were going to bring Trump to justice.Still, no one knew for sure.It was not thought that Trump would be indicted, because Justice Department rules say a president cant be indicted. So, the question was: Would Mueller imply that the only thing that saved Trump from an obstruction charge was the fact that he was sitting in the Oval Office? How much evidence would Mueller show that Trump actually tried to obstruct justice?As Happy Hour approached, Attorney General William Barr notified White House and congressional leaders that Mueller had delivered his report. The two Republicans are good friends who go back decades, a fact that startled Trump when Barr mentioned it during his confirmation hearings. (When Barr was attorney general the first time, under George H.W. Bush, he was Muellers boss, when Mueller led the criminal division.)In his letter to the leaders of the House and Senate Judiciary Committees, Barr said he might be able to brief them on the main conclusions of the report this weekend. The Justice Department said no more indictments were coming in the Russia investigation. Could Don Jr. and Jared have shaken off the bloodhounds?The scene Friday was far more occluded than the media hullabaloo on Sept. 9, 1998, when two dark vans pulled up to Capitol Hill with 36 boxes containing Ken Starrs report on presidential chicanery.Starr was a star leaker and showboat, and journalists and the public were quickly able to get their hands on the document on which the fate of the Republic was hanging. It was something of a shock to learn that the supposedly dignified independent counsel  who was once on a shortlist for the Supreme Court  had delivered a 445-page bodice ripper, a trite story of an office affair in all its seamy particulars, told with such sanctimony that it was redolent of Nathaniel Hawthorne.It was clear that the sins recorded were not black enough to merit impeachment. Politicians in Washington have been having illicit sex and lying about it since George Washington slept here.But that didnt stop Republicans from impeaching Bill Clinton that December. In the end, the reputation of Starr and the hypocritical Republicans, some of whom were having their own affairs with young government aides, suffered. And the country suffered as well. Clinton came out more popular, until #MeToo caught up with him.As much as Trump will spin victory and claim its all over, Friday was not the end of what the president tweeted was the Worlds most expensive Witch Hunt. Democrats, aflame with investigative zeal, demanded that the report be made public and all of Muellers files be turned over to Congress.Mueller may be winding down, but the Democrats are just getting wound up.I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@MaureenDowd) and join me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. OpinionThe Editorial BoardOpinionNoah BookbinderOpinionCaroline FredricksonAdvertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byAmericans deserve to know what the president and Vladimir Putin are talking about.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.If, beleaguered or bemused by the onrush of scandal and political antics, youre searching for some index of just how truly not-normal American governance has become, you might consider this: Standing on the White House lawn on Monday morning, his own government shut down around him, the president of the United States was asked by reporters if he was working for Russia.He said that he was not. Not only did I never work for Russia, I think it's a disgrace that you even asked that question, because it's a whole big fat hoax, President Trump said. Yet the reporters were right to ask, given Mr. Trumps bizarre pattern of behavior toward a Russian regime that the Republican Party quite recently regarded as Americas chief rival. Indeed, its unnerving that more people  particularly in the leadership of the Republican Party  arent alarmed by Mr. Trumps secretive communications with the Russian president, Vladimir Putin, and reliance on his word over the conclusions of American intelligence agencies.The Times reported last week that the F.B.I. started a counterintelligence investigation into Mr. Trump in 2017 after he fired James Comey, the bureaus director, to determine whether Russia had influenced him. The Washington Post reported over the weekend that the president has concealed details about his meetings with Mr. Putin even from officials of his own administration  going so far, on at least one occasion, as to confiscate his interpreter's notes.These revelations joined a long list of suspicious incidents and connections between Mr. Trump and the Russian government.The Russian government interfered in the 2016 election in order to get Mr. Trump elected, of course. Americas intelligence community agrees on that. The special counsel, Robert Mueller, is examining what happened before and after Election Day between the campaign and Mr. Putins government. But Mr. Trumps behavior simply since hes been in office hasnt given any peace of mind even to those willing to give him the benefit of the doubt  at least, those outside the Republican leadership.In the past month, the president announced that American troops would pull out of the conflict in Syria, something that the Russians have long called for. Mr. Trump subsequently said the Soviet Union was right to invade Afghanistan in 1979, parroting Russian revisionist history by claiming it was seeking to quell terrorism. This month, it was revealed that federal prosecutors had accused Mr. Trumps former campaign chief Paul Manafort of sharing political polling data in 2016 with an associate linked to Russian intelligence, the most direct evidence to date that the campaign may have tried to coordinate with Russia.Meanwhile, the Treasury Department is pushing to end sanctions against companies owned by Oleg Deripaska, an oligarch closely tied to Mr. Putin. Those sanctions were put in place in 2018 in retaliation for Russian meddling with the election.Despite Mr. Trumps insistence that he has been much tougher on Russia than previous presidents, he sure has a strange way of showing it. Throughout his time in the White House Mr. Trump has praised leaders aligned with Mr. Putin, like Marine Le Pen in France and Viktor Orban in Hungary. He has praised Mr. Putin outright. At the same time, the president has fired broadside after broadside at the twin pillars of stability in Western Europe: the European Union and NATO. He reportedly suggested that France leave the bloc and repeatedly called into question whether the United States would stand by its commitments to the military alliance. Weakening Western unity, as evidenced by those organizations, has long animated Russian foreign policy.Some of these moves are consistent with Mr. Trumps isolationism and pronounced yen for authoritarians, and perhaps also with his demonstrated ignorance of history.Its harder to come up with a rational excuse for Mr. Trumps secrecy about his dealings with Mr. Putin, or for why, in 2017, he shared highly classified information from Israel with the Russian foreign minister in a meeting in the Oval Office while also boasting about relieving heat from the investigation into his possible Russia ties by firing the F.B.I. director. Mr. Trump has also sided with Mr. Putin and against the conclusions of American intelligence agencies by denying that the Russian government tampered with the election.While Mr. Trump has plenty of kind words for a foreign leader who doesnt have Americas best interests at heart, he seems to be willing to heap no end of abuse on his fellow Americans, particularly those in the F.B.I. and the Justice Department who have sworn to support and defend the Constitution against all enemies, foreign and domestic.On Monday, Mr. Trump lashed out at F.B.I. agents for opening the counterintelligence investigation against him, calling them known scoundrels.With the House of Representatives newly under Democratic control, Mr. Trump might finally receive meaningful oversight that could help either uncover wrongdoing or put Americans minds at ease about their president.On Sunday, the new Democratic chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, Adam Schiff, urged his Republican colleagues to back his effort to obtain notes or testimony from the interpreter present at the meetings between Mr. Putin and Mr. Trump. Shouldnt we find out whether our president is really putting America first? Mr. Schiff tweeted. This is not a new or unexplored possibility, even among Republicans at one time. Theres two people I think Putin pays: Rohrabacher and Trump, Kevin McCarthy, who was then House majority leader, told his fellow Republicans at a closed-door meeting, The Washington Post first reported, shortly before Mr. Trump won his partys nomination for the White House in 2016. Dana Rohrabacher, a 15-term congressman from California who lost his bid for re-election in November, was such a staunch supporter of Moscow on Capitol Hill that the F.B.I. concluded that Russian spies were trying to recruit him. Mr. McCarthy said later that his line about Mr. Trump being paid by Moscow was a quip that landed flat. Whats no laughing matter is the unwillingness of the Republican Party to cast a critical eye upon a sitting president who has so flouted accepted practice for dealing with any foreign leader  not to mention one as adversarial as Vladimir Putin. Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementtranscriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Clare Toeniskoetter, Annie Brown and Theo Balcomb, and edited by Lisa Tobin, with help from Paige CowettThe investigation that has consumed the country and cast a shadow over the Trump presidency for almost two years has come to a close.Friday, March 22nd, 2019michael barbaroSo its here.michael schmidtWell, its in the hands of Bill Barr. Its not here in the sense that we can publicly consume it and see what Bob Mueller found. It has just moved from one pocket, which we cant see into, into another pocket that we cant see into.michael barbaroBut it has moved pockets, at least, which is something. Something weve been waiting two years for.michael schmidtCorrect. Bob Mueller is done with his investigation.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, Im Michael Barbaro. This is a special episode of The Daily. Today: The Mueller report has been sent to the attorney general. Its Friday afternoon, March 22. So Mike, talk me through your day today.michael schmidtSo knowing it was going to be a big day, I turned on the recorder as soon as I left the house this morning and made my way into the office to hurry up and wait.[music]michael schmidtAll right. 10:05 a.m.michael schmidtI left my house at 10:00 a.m.michael schmidtWe expect the report to be finished today around noon.michael schmidtWalking down 17th Street, heading to the office.michael schmidtI got a call from the office from my editor wanting to know what I knew. Told her I knew nothing. Last thing an editor wants to hear  nothing new.michael schmidtNot a ton of people on the streets.speakerExcuse me.michael schmidtYes?speakerDo you know where the Jamaican Embassy is?michael schmidtI do not, Im sorry. Do you know what the address is?michael schmidtWas stopped by a woman who couldnt find the Jamaican embassy.michael schmidtO.K., so youre going to want to go this way. Go to DuPont Circle, and make a right. Just keep on following that trail.speakerOh, O.K., so Im going the wrong way.michael schmidtWell, were all going the wrong way.michael schmidtCome up to Massachusetts Avenue.michael schmidtCold March day. Fairly cold here in Washington. 45 degrees.michael schmidtJust had a normal sort of walk into the office.michael schmidt[HUMMING] Half a block away, coming up to 17th michael barbaroIt doesnt seem like youre in a big hurry to get to the office.michael schmidtWell, all the work has been done. We know whats coming.michael schmidtHow are you?speakerHey, Mike.michael schmidtWhats going on?michael schmidtSo come into the building.michael schmidtBig day? No? Not a big day? All right.michael schmidtGet on the elevator.elevator voice announcerFloor seven.michael schmidtWalk into the office. And everyone wants to know speaker 1What do you got? What do you got?speaker 2Chasing the report.michael schmidtWhens it going to happen?speakerThis is the question I ask him every five michael schmidtDays or speakerDays or weeks.michael schmidtDays or weeks?michael schmidtThe whole apparatus of The New York Times is jacked up for this moment.michael schmidtWe got Nick here. Were all ready.speakerGangs all here.michael schmidtTheres been a lot of time and planning thats gone into this. Theres a lot of stories that have been written that are ready to go.speakerDoes that seem right?michael schmidtYep.speakerO.K.michael schmidtEveryones sitting around waiting, and they want answers.dean baquetSo whats the latest?michael schmidtDean Baquet, our executive editor, calls down to Washington to ask Elisabeth Bumiller, our bureau chief, what do you know?elisabeth bumillerYoure not so sure about it?michael schmidtIm less sure about the timing, but michael schmidtElizabeth calls me over to her desk, puts him on speakerphone. Mikey, what do you know?dean baquetDo you know much of a heads-up we may or may not get?michael schmidtMy guess is not a lot because I dont know what there is to get a heads-up on.michael schmidtAnd I said, I dont know.michael barbaro[LAUGHS] You tell them that you dont know.michael schmidtWe dont know!dean baquetO.K.elisabeth bumillerThats what we got.michael schmidtSo thats all we got.elisabeth bumillerAnd we have stories ready. Once we get the word from Justice, we just push a button.michael schmidtAll the work is done.elisabeth bumillerWere just tourists hanging around.michael schmidtWere sort of lemmings at this point.michael schmidtSo its sort of just having the same unsatisfying conversation with different people throughout the office for several hours while eating doughnuts.michael barbaro[LAUGHS]michael schmidtAnd then it happens.archived recordingThe special counsel investigation is over. Special Counsel Robert Mueller has concluded his investigation into Russian election interference and possible coordination with associates of President Donald Trump. That report has been submitted. Now the question is, what happens to it? How much gets released and when? That is up to the new attorney general, Bill Barr.michael barbaroSo what do we know at this stage? It is Friday afternoon. Whats our understanding?michael schmidtOur understanding is that the attorney general and his deputies now have a long weekend of reading ahead of them. They have to go through the report, see whats there, digest it, and then figure out what to do with it. How much of it should be made public, how much of it should be given to Congress, and how much of it should remain secret.michael barbaroIs that really all we know at this point? Is there anything about how this unfolded that tells us anything about the report or what Mueller has found, if hes decided to bring any charges against any figure in the White House, or how hes thinking about this?michael schmidtWe just know that Mueller is done. There are no more individuals that will be charged by the special counsels office in the investigation. If anyone else has gotten caught up in this, they will be indicted by other U.S. attorneys across the country who have absorbed investigations from the special counsels office.michael barbaroSo the version of the report that will go to Congress and be seen by the public is the version that the attorney general has had a chance to go through and decide which parts should be seen by the larger world and which should not. And thats still going to take a while for him to figure out.michael schmidtCorrect. And its a very difficult process, because if there is criminality in regards to the president, its a very tricky issue to navigate. The Justice Department has a policy that says the president cant be indicted. But if the president cant be indicted, Congress should deal with that behavior. How do you give that information to Congress? Its not a snap decision you can make  like, O.K., Muellers done, this is what he found. Lets put this in another box and send it to Congress. Its far trickier.michael barbaroSo how does the A.G. make the decision about what to include and what not to include in this report?michael schmidtBarr is in this incredibly difficult spot, because he has to figure out how much information to share with the public and Congress in a way that is enough to leave people convinced that this investigation was done thoroughly and based on following the facts. But he has to protect the president from disclosures about him that the public may be interested in, that his political enemies may want to know, but that has no bearing on the actual criminal investigation that was done.michael barbaroAnd does how the attorney general handles that balance depend, in your mind, Mike, on what the report from Mueller finds and says and recommends?michael schmidtYes. If Mueller says the president didnt break the law, then Barr has to figure out how much information to give to Congress so that Congress takes those findings seriously. The problem is Barr is in a very difficult spot politically, because the Democrats have already concluded the president did something wrong. So if Barr learns from Mueller that theres no criminality on the president, how does Barr then win over those Democrats and show them that Mueller truly made a decision based on the facts? How much of what the investigation found does he have to give to the Hill? In a normal criminal investigation, all of that information would not become public because the Justice Department would want to protect the individual who they have found did not commit a crime. But this situation is different, because a lot of people do think the president committed a crime. So how do you show the Democrats and the rest of the country that hey, look, this is what Mueller found. He only found X, Y, and Z. And if we wanted to make a case, he would have needed to have uncovered these other things, which he did not. And thats why were confident with his findings.michael barbaroAnd on the other hand, if Mueller does find criminality and perhaps recommend charges against the president, how does Barr have to proceed?michael schmidtWell, how much of the evidence that Mueller uncovered should go to Congress? What should be told to Congress? Should Congress be told explicitly, look, Mueller believes the president violated these laws, and heres the evidence to back it up? But what if some of that evidence has been obtained from a grand jury? The Justice Department cant just hand over grand jury information to Congress. What if the information is classified? Theyre not going to want to hand over classified information to Congress. They think Congress leaks like a sieve.michael barbaroIs it safe to say though, Mike, that if criminality is found by Mueller, Congress and the public will see more of the Muller report than if that is not found?michael schmidtMaybe. Maybe. But look, this is a highly unusual situation. The person who runs the executive branch, the president, has just been under investigation by folks inside of his own branch for the past 22 months. Very awkward situation.michael barbaroAnd the person making the decision about what we all will learn about that investigation is a direct appointee of that president.michael schmidtCorrect. Has the job because the president put him there. So the perception here is one where the average person looks at this and says, well, how can a guy who was made attorney general by the president look at this situation and make a decision that is free of politics? And how can I have confidence that this was done based on the facts?michael barbaroSo when will we know more? When will we know what the attorney general has decided on that front?michael schmidtOh, now you want to know more.michael barbaro[LAUGHS] Yes, please.michael schmidtThe greed of the news business.michael barbaroIf youll indulge us.michael schmidtWhen will we know more? Barr and his deputies will go through this, and I dont know  sometime in the next few days, sometime in the next few weeks. It may be a difficult process to unbraid. Mueller has been rummaging around the presidents life for 22 months. We dont have clarity into everything Muellers found. What if Barr looks at it and says, eh, Mueller thinks he violated this law and that law. But actually, I dont think he has it. Maybe theres not enough there. Maybe Barr disagrees with what Mueller has found, simply on a legal basis. The other thing is that Barr only really gets one shot to get it right. Whatever he goes out the door with in terms of handing over information to Congress, hes got to have it right. Hes not going to have a second chance to say, well, you know, I gave you that stuff. But like, meh, maybe its not what I thought it was. Or, oh, lets give you more. He has to get it right the first time. Otherwise, hell look like hes waffling.michael barbaroAnd how much of how Barr handles this will be with a mind toward the expectation that a Democratically controlled House of Representatives is already into a series of investigations that they only want to redouble once this report is in their hands?michael schmidtBarr clearly knows Congress is going to jump up and down until it is satisfied with the information that it wants about this investigation. He can drag that out and probably lose it one way or another, either in the court of public opinion or in the actual courts. So he probably just wants to get it over with as soon as possible. He knows this has been an enormous weight on the country, and that the sooner it is resolved, the sooner the country can move on.michael barbaroAnd Mike, what is the likelihood that the way we find out more about the Mueller report is not from the version thats sent to Congress, but from something else? I think were all really mindful of the fact that this is the era of the leak, and that this is the biggest potential leak in recent memory.michael schmidtYeah.michael barbaroWill it leak?michael schmidtI dont know. I mean, the number of people who will have access to this document will be very small. And they will know that if there are a lot of leaks about this, then the president can start to raise questions about whats really going on. It will look nefarious. The Democrats will get their backs up and say, well, if this stuff is leaking out, why cant we have access to it? They will know that their lives will be much more difficult if there are leaks here. Obviously, you could come up with a scenario where someone working on the investigation is frustrated that the Justice Department has decided to go one way or the other on the report, and they think, ah, screw it, Im going to make this public. But my guess is they have gone to great lengths to ensure that this is heavily protected.michael barbaroSo now we wait again.michael schmidtHurry up and wait.michael barbaroMike, thank you very much.michael schmidtThanks for having me.michael barbaroIn a letter to Democratic and Republican leaders of Congress sent on Friday afternoon, Attorney General William Barr said he would brief them on the major conclusions of the special counsels report as soon as this weekend. On Friday evening, The Times reported that Mueller is not recommending any new charges against President Trump or anyone else around him. Thats it for The Daily. Im Michael Barbaro. See you on Monday.Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via StitcherThe Mueller report has been sent to the attorney general. Heres a look at what this means and what comes next.[For an exclusive look at how the biggest stories on The Daily podcast come together, subscribe to our newsletter. Read the latest edition here.]On todays episode:Michael S. Schmidt, who has been covering the special counsel investigation for The New York Times.Background reading:It is now up to the attorney general, William P. Barr, how much of the report to share with Congress and with the American public. Read the latest updates here.Will the report be made public? Will President Trump see the report? Here are answers to six key questions.Heres what we already know about the work done by Mr. Mueller.Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Follow Michael Barbaro on Twitter: @mikiebarb. And if youre interested in advertising with The Daily, write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting.Special Edition: Robert Mueller Submits His Report was produced by Clare Toeniskoetter, Annie Brown and Theo Balcomb, and edited by Lisa Tobin, with help from Paige Cowett.The Daily is produced by Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown, Jessica Cheung, Lynsea Garrison, Michael Simon Johnson, Andy Mills, Neena Pathak, Rachel Quester, Ike Sriskandarajah, Clare Toeniskoetter, Jonathan Wolfe and Alexandra Leigh Young, and edited by Larissa Anderson, Paige Cowett and Wendy Dorr. Lisa Tobin is our executive producer. Samantha Henig is our editorial director. Brad Fisher is our technical manager. Chris Wood is our sound engineer. Our theme music is by Jim Brunberg and Ben Landsverk of Wonderly.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported bylettersOne reader calls it a courageous and mature decision. Another sees it as his failure to bully Speaker Nancy Pelosi.To the Editor:Re Mr. Trumps Shutdown Was a Cruel Joke (editorial, Jan. 26):While this editorial makes good points about the cruelty and folly of the shutdown, the negative tone misses an opportunity. President Trump made a courageous and mature decision Friday to reopen the government. In the best interest of the whole country, he dared the predictable avalanche of caving and incompetence insults from both the right and the left.So lets give him the praise and appreciation he deserves. If even his enemies like us are fair to him now, in his next tight spot he may be encouraged to decide as wisely again.Betsy DurenTucsonTo the Editor:As a Democrat Id like to let President Trump know that I hope his failure to bully Speaker Nancy Pelosi into paying for the wall is the beginning of the end of the bombast and incompetence he has shown in his first two years in office. While it is still too early to know if he has learned anything from this experience, it should not be lost on him that we now have a Congress capable of standing up to him and doing what is necessary to make sure he is held accountable for his actions.Michael ScottSan FranciscoTo the Editor:Lets be honest. The wall debate has nothing to do with the actual merits or costs of constructing a wall. For Republicans, its a symbol of getting tough on illegal immigration. For Democrats, its a means of thwarting President Trump and gaining popularity among liberal and Latino voters. For the nation, its a symptom of politics trumping good government. William M. GordonUpper Montclair, N.J. To the Editor:A Nation Adrift in Vast Ripples of the Shutdown (front page, Jan. 27) provides an outstanding overview of the impacts of the shutdown. Its most lasting impact may be the governments ability to recruit and retain employees who have other options.Ethan AnnisSan FranciscoAdvertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Daniel VictorAs is tradition, President Trump hosted the champions of college football, the Clemson Tigers, for a celebration of their athletic achievement at the White House on Monday.The food he offered them was far less traditional.Piles of burgers and fish sandwiches from McDonalds, Wendys and Burger King, still in their boxes and wrappers, were served on trays in the candlelit dining room. Tubs of dipping sauces were stacked in silver gravy boats. On another table, heat lamps kept French fries and Dominos pizzas warm. Salads were available, too.It was an opulent setting for fast-food fare. Visiting players are typically offered a meal from the White House kitchen, but Sarah Huckabee Sanders, Mr. Trumps press secretary, said the government shutdown necessitated a new menu.Because the Democrats refuse to negotiate on border security, much of the residence staff at the White House is furloughed  so the president is personally paying for the event to be catered with some of everyones favorite fast foods, she said.The substitution didnt seem to bother Mr. Trump, and perhaps even delighted him.I like it all, he told reporters before the players arrived. Its all good stuff. Great American food.Mr. Trump has long professed a love for fast food. He values its efficiency and consistency, and as a self-professed germaphobe, has said uniform health standards make him more confident in its cleanliness. He used to eat it several times per week.Hes far from alone in loving fast food. About one-third of American adults eat fast food on any given day, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.Still, the sight of the fast-food cartons inside the stately White House dining room struck some observers on social media as incongruous  or lacking in hospitality for a celebration. (No players looked particularly dissatisfied as cameras rolled.)It also promoted cuisine that nutritionists warn is high in calories, fat and sodium, and that increases the risk of cardiovascular and other diseases.Such events, ostensibly a tribute to championship teams, are unavoidably political. Mr. Trump abruptly disinvited the N.F.L. champion Philadelphia Eagles last year after most of the players and coaches said they would boycott the visit. The Golden State Warriors declined to visit after winning the N.B.A. championship last year.With reporters gathered before the players arrived, on a day he stayed inside the White House, Mr. Trump was eager to drive the discussion back to the weekslong government shutdown. After showing off the food spread, he pivoted to making his case for Republican unity and the need for the border wall.It should have happened 30 years ago, 20 years ago, 10 years ago, and its going to happen now, its going to happen now, he said.Without missing a beat, he continued: Thank you very much, everybody. Enjoy your food.Katie Rogers contributed reporting.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byPor The New York TimesBienvenidos a esta edicin especial de El Times, donde compartiremos por algunas semanas la versin en espaol de Cruzar la frontera, una nueva entrega semanal de The New York Times con reportes sobre la vida en la frontera entre Mxico y Estados Unidos.Aqu puedes suscribirte para recibir la prxima edicin [en ingls] en tu correo. Te gusta? Envalo a un amigo. Los suscriptores de El Times podrn acceder a la versin en espaol todos los sbados en su bandeja de entrada.Por Manny Fernndez en Donna, Texas.La primavera lleg a la frontera y eso significa que comienzan esos meses en los que decenas de miles de jubilados de Minnesota, Dakota del Sur, Illinois y otras partes del Medio Oeste de Estados Unidos adoptan al sur de Texas como su segundo hogar.Los jubilados en traje de bao andan en bicicletas para llegar a las piscinas y suelen llevar flotadores de tubo bajo el brazo como lanzas de combate a caballo. Desfilan por la calle con sus carritos de golf. Se aventuran a ir a Mxico para comprar medicamentos ms baratos, hacerse pedicuras o tratamientos dentales de bajo costo y beber margaritas en copas enormes.Se les conoce como Winter Texans (texanos invernales) y se concentran principalmente en el valle del ro Grande, la regin templada al sur de Texas que tambin es la zona por donde pasan la mayor cantidad de migrantes desde Centroamrica (el presidente Donald Trump ha declarado una emergencia nacional en la frontera y ha apostado a soldados del Ejrcito para ayudar a controlar la creciente afluencia ). Uno de sus campamentos base estaba a menos de un kilmetro del centro vacacional Victoria Palms en Donna, adonde llegan muchas personas mayores para ocupar cinco canchas de pickleball, un juego que es una mezcla de bdminton, tenis y ping pong.La invasin anual de los residentes del Medio Oeste y unos cuantos canadienses ha disminuido en aos recientes, pero siguen representando una importante fuerza econmica y cultural. Unos 106.000 visitantes invernales gastaron alrededor de 528 millones de dlares en el valle durante la temporada de invierno de 2017-18, segn una encuesta realizada por la Universidad de Texas Valle del Ro Grande. Los restaurantes tex-mex montan pancartas para recibirlos. Hay peridicos para texanos invernales, parques para remolques con restricciones de edad mnima, exposiciones, cruceros, producciones teatrales y calcomanas de parachoques. Una camioneta en la ciudad fronteriza de McAllen tena dos: Texano invernal de Iowa y Estoy jubilado. Rebsame.Me permite escapar de los bancos de nieve, dijo Dean Miller, de 58 aos, residente de Detroit Lakes, Minnesota, quien durante el invierno vive y trabaja en el centro vacacional Winter Ranch en lamo, Texas. Vas a un evento aqu y te encuentras a tu vecino de all.La mayora de los texanos invernales son de raza blanca y tienen 70 aos o ms. Muchos de ellos votaron por Trump en 2016, y su mera presencia contradice la afirmacin que hizo el presidente acerca de que la frontera est en crisis. Vienen a la regin desde hace aos en algunos casos, siguiendo la tradicin de sus padres y la dinmica poltica y la retrica de la emergencia nacional no afecta cmo viven su jubilacin, ni dnde lo hacen.Nosotros no vemos lo que ustedes ven en la televisin, dijo Terry Goss, director general de Victoria Palms, una de las comunidades ms grandes de texanos invernales, con hasta 2500 jubilados.Qu es exactamente lo que les atrae a los texanos invernales?Conocer la vida fronteriza que no se parece en nada a lo que la mayora de los estadounidenses imagina que es. Un viernes se celebr el cuarto evento benfico de baile sock hop  en el centro Ranchero Village en Weslaco. Hubo almuerzos de pescado y recorridos en bote por el ro, baile de cuadrillas y sesiones de karaoke, conciertos improvisados de bluegrass acstico y servicios religiosos ecumnicos.Un lunes por la tarde, en el centro vacacional Winter Ranch en lamo, la compaa teatral de Winter Ranch agot las entradas en su presentacin de tres obras de un solo acto: The Ethel and Albert Comedies. En Victoria Palms, Goss habl de pie junto a un cartel que mostraba todos los espectculos agotados en el saln de baile del centro; uno de ellos era el concierto de una banda tributo a The Rolling Stones. Victoria Palms es tan popular con los canadienses que casi todos los veranos se programa una reunin de los huspedes de Victoria Palms cerca de Toronto.Margaret Hitzemann, de 63 aos, habitante de Onamia, Minnesota, pas los ltimos dos meses en una casa en Port Aransas, cerca de Corpus Christi. Una tarde lluviosa, ella y su esposo cruzaron la frontera a pie hacia la ciudad turstica de Nuevo Progreso, Tamaulipas. Compraron chapulines crujientes y fueron a una farmacia para comprar medicamentos baratos.No tomamos muchas medicinas, as que pensamos: Ah, vayamos all y compremos un poco de Tylenol y Advil, y cosas as, por menos dinero, dijo Hitzemann. Pens: Cielos, esto vale lo mismo en Walmart. As que al final no compramos ningn medicamento.En una regin con una gran poblacin latina y una actitud tolerante hacia la inmigracin muchas personas tienen familiares en ambos lados de la frontera el choque cultural con los habitantes del norte es inevitable. El estudio publicado por la Universidad de Texas Valle del Ro Grande incluy mensajes sin editar enviados a funcionarios locales de parte de texanos invernales. Algunos de los comentarios ms mordaces decan: Sean ms estadounidenses, menos mexicanos. No estamos en Mxico! y Hagan que el canal 5 respete a Trump y Poden el csped, recojan la basura y hablen ingls.Ya ha comenzado el xodo de regreso al norte. El final de la temporada lleg para muchos el jueves 21 de marzo, con el Da del Turista, una fecha anual de aprecio a los texanos invernales en Nuevo Progreso.Para algunos, la temporada nunca termina. Existen los texanos conversos, antiguos texanos invernales que se asentaron en el valle de por vida. Kristi Collier es originaria de McAllen y dirige una empresa hotelera y meditica que presta servicios a texanos invernales llamada Welcome Home, Rio Grande Valley. Ella organiza una fiesta anual de toma de juramento a los texanos conversos en abril.Entre los conversos se encuentran Ken y Lois Lane, originarios de Anchorage, Alaska, quienes empezaron a pasar sus inviernos en Victoria Palms en 2005. Ahora viven ah permanentemente en una casa mvil.Creo que el costo de vida aqu es muy razonable en comparacin con muchos otros lugares, opin Ken, de 73 aos, tcnico electricista retirado que trabajaba para una compaa elctrica.l y su esposa visitaron Nuevo Progreso y recibieron a su hijo y a su familia cuando vinieron a pasar las vacaciones de primavera desde Iowa. La pareja encaja en una categora nica: son una suerte de texanos invernales a la inversa.Conservamos la casa rodante y en el verano, cuando hace mucho calor, vamos al norte, explic Ken.Manny forma parte del equipo de periodistas del Times que actualmente se encuentran en la frontera. Cada semana, ellos compartirn parte de su reporteo sobre la frontera y las personas que pasan tiempo en ambos lados de ella.Tienes preguntas sobre cmo es la vida en la frontera o sugerencias sobre este boletn? Escrbenos: crossingtheborder@nytimes.comHay personas que simplemente dicen: Mndenlos a todos de regreso y construyan un muro. Pero, si eso ocurre, tendramos anaqueles vacos en las tiendas. Mike McMahon, productor lechero en el norte del estado de Nueva York.Las granjas en el norte de Nueva York estn a miles de kilmetros de la frontera sur, pero estn muy cerca de Canad, por lo que la Patrulla Fronteriza tiene jurisdiccin en esa zona. La dependencia que tienen los agricultores de los trabajadores indocumentados ha convertido a la regin en un punto focal del debate sobre las polticas fronterizas del gobierno de Trump, lo cual ha exacerbado las tensiones entre los polticos estatales de ambos partidos y los agentes federales que ejecutan las medidas severas del mandatario en contra de la inmigracin ilegal.Esta semana, Christina Goldbaum, reportera sobre inmigracin en la seccin Metro de The New York Times, explor en un artculo la historia de McMahon y la de los migrantes que trabajan en granjas como la de l. Lee ms al respecto aqu.Esta semana, la KPBS, una estacin de radio pblica del sur de California, lanz un nuevo podcast, Only Here, acerca de la vida y la cultura en San Diego y Tijuana. Buscan mostrar el arte, la comida, las tradiciones y la cultura que existen debido a la frontera. El primer episodio presenta la historia de un joven fotgrafo gay e indocumentado, y puedes escucharlo junto con otros episodios aqu.Los creadores del podcast, al igual que todos nosotros, se han sentido atrados por las historias y las conversaciones relacionadas con la frontera. Si prefieres conocer estas historias en formato de audio, aqu te presentamos algunos programas que te pueden interesar: The Green Line, producido por el sindicato de agentes de la Patrulla Fronteriza. Los anfitriones, Art Del Cueto y Brandon Judd, son agentes de la Patrulla Fronteriza que apoyan las polticas del presidente Trump, y ambos aparecieron a su lado en la sala de prensa de la Casa Blanca en enero cuando habl sobre una declaratoria de emergencia nacional para ayudar a la construccin de un muro fronterizo (el Times ya ha escrito artculos sobre ellos). La primavera pasada, Radiolab de WNYC transmiti Border Project, una serie en tres entregas acerca de una poltica de la Patrulla Fronteriza que muy probablemente provoc un aumento, desde finales de los aos noventa, en la cantidad de migrantes que moran al cruzar a Estados Unidos. Tambin comparte las historias de algunos de los migrantes que emprendieron el trayecto a pesar de ello. Escucha todos los episodios aqu. El episodio The Border Wall, de Radio Diaries de la PRX, se enfoca en las zonas recnditas de la frontera a las que una mujer se refiere como tierra de nadie, separadas de su pas por una barrera que no siempre cumple con su propsito. Nuestro propio podcast The Daily tiene muchos episodios [en ingls] acerca de la frontera. Empieza con la serie en dos entregas, Dispatches From the Border (la primera parte aqu y la segunda aqu), que sigue a Azam Ahmed, jefe de corresponsales del Times para Mxico, Centroamrica y el Caribe, y otros periodistas en un viaje a lo largo de los casi 3200 kilmetros de la frontera con Mxico.Tambin est el episodio The Scars of Family Separation, acerca de un padre migrante que cruz la frontera con su hija. Finalmente, el verano pasado se transmiti How Separating Migrant Families Became U.S. Policy, una entrevista con Stephen Miller, un asesor poltico de alto rango que ha ayudado al presidente Trump a estructurar su poltica de inmigracin. SE BUSCAN: Traductores de lenguas indgenas centroamericanas. Los tribunales estadounidenses encargados de resolver asuntos migratorios tienen un retraso de 800.000 casos y el aumento en la llegada de migrantes procedentes de Centroamrica ha empujado la situacin al lmite, segn las declaraciones de abogados, activistas e intrpretes en este reportaje.Estados Unidos provee traductores en 350 lenguas de todo el mundo; sin embargo, no se da abasto en quich, ixil o zapoteco, lenguas indgenas que estn entre los veinticinco idiomas ms recurrentes en las cortes migratorias. Hay poblaciones enteras que se presentan con idiomas que no hemos visto antes en Estados Unidos, dijo Odilia Romero, una intrprete de zapoteco y activista. El linchamiento de latinos y la recuperacin de sus historias. A principios del siglo XX, los mexicanos y otros habitantes de ascendencia hispana fueron linchados y masacrados en el sureste estadounidense por delitos como rehusarse a tocar el violn o gritar Viva [Porfirio] Daz!. Ahora los descendientes de esas personas quieren que haya un recordatorio constante de las atrocidades desconocidas por muchos, as como de sus vctimas. La novela Lost Children Archive ha sido una de las ms esperadas en Estados Unidos. En parte porque se desarolla con la crisis migratoria de fondo. El libro explora la realidad de nios que cruzan la frontera, enfrentan la muerte, son detenidos y deportados sin la compaa de sus padres o de algn adulto que los cuide. La novela sigue el viaje en carretera de una pareja y sus hijos desde Nueva York hasta la frontera con Mxico. Aqu puedes leer la resea del libro en ingls y aqu una conversacin con la escritora Valeria Luiselli en espaol.Gracias por leernos. El lunes estaremos de vuelta con El Times y todas las noticias que necesitas leer en espaol. Si quieres recibir los despachos semanales sobre la frontera en ingls, puedes registrarte dando de alta tu direccin de correo electrnico aqu. Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Jeff Ernst, Elisabeth Malkin and Paulina VillegasSAN PEDRO SULA, Honduras  A new caravan of migrants is forming in Honduras, and even ahead of its scheduled departure at dawn on Tuesday, battle lines were being drawn to the north, with some vowing to help them on their journey north, and others to block them.For President Trump, the timing of the caravan offered fresh ammunition in his fight with Congress over the $5.7 billion he wants for an enhanced border wall between Mexico and the United States. The dispute has led to a partial shutdown of the federal government.As he did last fall, when another caravan made the same trek, Mr. Trump portrayed the migrants  who say they are trying to escape poverty and violence, and who in seeking asylum are exercising a legal right  in an ominous light.There is another major caravan forming right now in Honduras, and so far were trying to break it up, but so far its bigger than anything weve seen, Mr. Trump said on Thursday. And a drone isnt going to stop it and a sensor isnt going to stop it, but you know whats going to stop it in its tracks? A nice, powerful wall.Despite Mr. Trumps assertions, nobody knows how many people will leave on Tuesday and how many more may join the walkers as they cross Guatemala, reach southern Mexico and make their way to the United States border.It was also unclear on Sunday who put the plan in motion for this caravan.Hctor Romero, 37, has decided he is going to join the caravan on Tuesday. I have had only two days work a week for the past three months and that barely covers expenses, said Mr. Romero, who collects bus fares in a small town about 40 miles west of San Pedro Sula, the city from which the caravan intends to start. I didnt have the courage to go last time, but this time I do.The divorced father of four is taking his 12-year-old daughter with him, believing that it may improve his chances with United States immigration authorities.The first challenge to the migrants may come from their own governments. The deeply unpopular presidents of Honduras and Guatemala, both tarnished by scandal, are eager to maintain the support of the Trump administration. Halting the caravan could help them do that.On Thursday, the charg daffaires in the American Embassy, Heide B. Fulton, traveled to the border with Guatemala to tape a plea to migrants. Dont let yourself be fooled, she said. Dont invest your time and money in a journey that is destined to fail.In Mexico, the new government, led by the leftist President Andrs Manuel Lpez Obrador, which took office on Dec. 1, says it will deal with the migrants more humanely than the preceding administration.Officials say they want to avoid a repetition of the horror earlier migrants endured as they tried to avoid detection  and deportation  on the perilous trek across Mexico.Our vision is that migrants are not criminals, much less do they constitute a threat to the security of Mexico or the United States, Mexicos interior minister, Olga Snchez Cordero, said last week in a speech to Mexican diplomats, promising an end to massive deportations.More than 300,000 Central Americans entered Mexico last year, most of them illegally, and an estimated 80 percent of them were bound for the United States border, Ms. Snchez Cordero said.She said migrants in a new caravan who enter the country at official crossing points and register would be granted visas to stay and work in Mexico or permits to travel under the supervision of migration authorities toward the United States border. But those who cross into Mexico illegally, she said, will be deported.We wont allow any entry that isnt orderly, safe and regulated by Mexican law, Ms. Snchez Cordero said.The governments new policies will be put to the test when the caravan arrives, said Gustavo Mohar, a former migration official in Mexicos Interior Ministry. You cannot resolve the problem, he said. You manage it intelligently, cautiously, realistically.He said success, particularly with so much international attention focused on the Central American migrants, would give Mexico moral authority with the United States.Traveling in caravans offers safety in numbers from the criminal groups and corrupt officials who prey on migrants, activists say. But the size of recent caravans has become uncontrollable, said Irineo Mujica, a member of Pueblo Sin Fronteras, a transnational group that accompanied earlier caravans in Mexico. It is not organizing this new one.As the new caravan prepares to leave, the experience of the last one seems to be guiding the response of governments and people along the way.That previous exodus was a tale told through images: migrants wading across the Suchiate River, which marks the border between Guatemala and Mexico; masses of people filling country roads and cramming into pickup trucks; and the central squares of provincial Mexican cities transformed into cluttered campsites.When the caravan  almost 6,000 strong  reached Tijuana, the migrants found that a high fence and a very long wait to ask for asylum still separated them from the United States. Migrant shelters overflowed and conditions in them quickly worsened. Some migrants gave up.But back home in Honduras, the trials of previous caravans have not been a deterrent for those considering joining the new one. The danger and frustrations pale beside the overwhelming fear of being sent back home, said Sister Lidia de Suazo, the coordinator of pastoral care for migrants at the Roman Catholic archdiocese in the Honduran capital, Tegucigalpa.The majority of those who went with the October caravan were not deported, she said. So that sends the message back to the countries of origin, and people say, Lets go too because they wont deport us. Miroslava Cerpas, the migration coordinator at the Center for Research and Promotion of Human Rights in Tegucigalpa, said: We explain the dangers to them. It doesnt matter what might happen to them, they are going to leave. Many dont know where they are going but they know what they are leaving behind.Some of the migrants in Tijuana were considering going south to join the new caravan and accompany those making the trip for the first time. Omar Rivera, 39, a construction worker from El Salvador, was one of them.A lot of people are coming, he said as he prepared to board a bus heading south, and they need our help.Jeff Ernst reported from San Pedro Sula, Honduras, Elisabeth Malkin from Mexico City and Paulina Villegas from Tijuana, Mexico.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Mihir ZaveriThe deployment of active-duty United States troops at the border with Mexico will most likely be extended through September, the Pentagon said Monday.The Pentagons border mission had previously been scheduled to end on Dec. 15, and the Defense Department later extended the deployment into January. Then came Mondays announcement.In a rare use of military force first announced in October, the Trump administration sent about 5,900 active-duty troops to join up with Border Patrol agents and National Guard members, as a caravan of Central American migrants made its way toward the United States.The move was viewed by many as unnecessary political fear-mongering as the midterm elections approached. Border and military officials insisted the caravan was a serious threat.On Monday, the Pentagon said that its assistance would continue through Sept. 30 at the Department of Homeland Securitys request, and that the support would focus on mobile surveillance and detection and placing concertina wire between ports of entry.Its not clear exactly how many troops are currently at the border or how the number is expected to change  a Pentagon official said in November that the number was expected to dip below the 5,900 initially deployed. The Pentagon did not immediately answer further questions about Mondays announcement.The extension comes as a new migrant caravan was forming in Honduras, and Mr. Trump and Congresss differing visions on border security have led to the longest shutdown of the federal government in American history.Mr. Trump continues to push for a wall to stem what he calls a crisis at the border.But the reality is more complicated.Illegal border crossings have been declining for nearly two decades, and border-crossing apprehensions in 2017 were at their lowest level in more than 45 years.But a record number of families have tried to cross the border in recent months, and asylum claims have jumped as many migrant families say they fear returning to their home countries.The troops, who are prevented by the Posse Comitatus Act from engaging in law enforcement activities within the country, had been spread across small bases where they spent the initial weeks setting up concertina wire and other security barriers. Later, the troops were also giving rides to Border Patrol agents and conducting more training.Thomas Gibbons-Neff contributed reporting.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Nicholas Fandos, Katie Benner, Maggie Haberman and Annie KarniWASHINGTON  Attorney General William P. Barr and his team on Saturday pored over the highly anticipated report by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, a senior Justice Department official said, preparing to deliver the investigations principal conclusions to jittery lawmakers and President Trump as soon as Sunday.Mr. Barr and Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general who appointed Mr. Mueller and oversaw much of his work, were cloistered inside the Justice Department debating how to present the findings. Mr. Mueller was not participating in the process, the official said.With little concrete information about the investigation circulating outside that tight circle, Washington was rife with speculation bouncing among reporters, lawmakers scattered across the country for their spring recess and lawyers for people involved in the case.Mr. Trump himself remained uncharacteristically silent. After months attacking Mr. Muellers inquiry as a partisan witch hunt, he had yet to comment on its conclusion by Saturday afternoon. Spending the weekend at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach, Fla., Mr. Trump was surrounded by members of his family and a larger coterie of aides than usual. He spent much of Saturday on the golf course and had lunch with Kid Rock, according to people familiar with his plans.Mr. Mueller delivered his report to Mr. Barr on Friday, signaling the end to a 22-month investigation into Russias efforts to interfere in the 2016 presidential election and any attempts by Mr. Trumps associates to aid them. Mr. Mueller also examined whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice to try to protect himself or his allies from investigators.As part of the winding down of his investigation, Mr. Muellers office was handing off one of its remaining cases, a spokesman said on Saturday. Prosecutors in the United States attorneys office in the District of Columbia will handle the sentencing of Rick Gates, the former Trump campaign deputy who pleaded guilty to conspiracy and lying to investigators and agreed to cooperate with the inquiry.Regulations governing the special counsel give Mr. Barr latitude to decide what, if anything, to share publicly. In a letter to Congress notifying lawmakers that he had the report, Mr. Barr said he planned to hand over to them, and by extension the public, a summary of Mr. Muellers principal conclusions as soon as this weekend. He wrote that he remained committed to as much transparency as possible.Only a few people in the Justice Department had seen the report and a copy had not been given to the White House, said the senior law enforcement official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss internal planning.The Justice Department appears to be moving quickly, at least in part because it has known for some time that Mr. Mueller was in the homestretch.When Mr. Barr was briefed on the investigation this month, he was told that there would be no more subpoenas or indictments, and that Mr. Muellers team was ready to wrap up in mid-March, according to people familiar with the investigation who were not authorized to discuss it. The special counsels office later notified Mr. Barr that it needed a few additional days to take care of administrative issues, which pushed the delivery to Friday.Without certainty about what Mr. Barr would disclose or when, House Democrats convened a 30-minute conference call on Saturday afternoon to line up talking points. Democrats led by Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California have begun insisting that only the release of Mr. Muellers full report and underlying findings will be sufficient so that Democrat-led House committees can conduct their own scrutiny of Mr. Trump.The top Democrats on nearly a dozen House and Senate committees sent letters on Friday to the F.B.I., the Justice Department, the White House and other federal agencies demanding that all documents, communication and evidence amassed by Mr. Mueller and his team be preserved because Congress might request access to it.Congress requires the full report and the underlying documents so that the committees can proceed with their independent work, including oversight and legislating to address any issues the Mueller report may raise, Ms. Pelosi wrote in a letter to fellow Democrats before the call.During the call, she added that she would reject any offer from the Justice Department to brief the bipartisan Gang of Eight House and Senate leaders or some other configuration of lawmakers in a classified setting on findings that are not made public, according to a person present. Ms. Pelosi said she would insist any briefing be unclassified to allow lawmakers to discuss the full investigative findings publicly.Republican leaders convened their own brief call on Friday night, after the Justice Department notified Congress that it had received the report from Mr. Muellers office, but it was primarily limited to logistics, according to one person with knowledge of the call. Welcoming the news that the special counsel would seek no further indictments, members of the presidents party were cautiously optimistic.The Republican National Committee circulated talking points to allies on Friday that emphasized Mr. Trumps cooperation with the inquiry and appeared to set the stage for the president and his party to claim political victory. They asserted that speculation about interference with the investigation had been proved dead wrong.Its long past time Democrats drop their politically motivated calls for never-ending investigations, said a copy of the talking points, obtained by The New York Times.Allies surrounding the president at Mar-a-Lago found themselves in a similar place. Mr. Trumps lawyers and aides urged him to stay quiet, people briefed on the discussions said. Wait and see what was in the report, and trust that Mr. Barr is not trying to harm you, they cautioned. They assured him that there would be ample time to claim vindication after they knew what was in the report, the people said.Mr. Trump appeared to be in good spirits on Friday night when he dined on the Mar-a-Lago patio with his wife and some of his children.But he was circumspect about the end of an investigation that has been a backdrop of his presidency. He told people who greeted him that he was tired, but he still returned to the patio after giving brief remarks at a local Republican Party dinner in the clubs ballroom. He sat sipping coffee until fairly late in the evening.One friend of Mr. Trump said that despite his outward good spirits, the president remained anxious about the contents of the report and was concerned that its release was taking longer than he expected.In recent weeks, Mr. Trump has been canvassing friends and allies for their opinions of Mr. Barr, a long-serving Republican legal hand who was confirmed last month. Mr. Trump, people who have spoken with him said, does not know Mr. Barr well or what to expect from him.Do you know Barr? the president has asked others of his attorney general.Nicholas Fandos and Katie Benner reported from Washington, and Maggie Haberman and Annie Karni from New York. Adam Goldman contributed reporting from Washington.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBest of Late NightBy Giovanni RussonelloWelcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous nights highlights that lets you sleep  and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If youre interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.Investigators for Robert Mueller, the special counsel, have said that Attorney General William Barr did not adequately portray the findings of their report into Russian interference in the 2016 election. They have said that the report is more damaging to President Trump than Barrs four-page letter suggested.Stephen Colbert made fun of Barrs brief recap, which said Mueller had concluded that Trump had not conspired with Russia.Now, Billy Barr said that Mueller cleared the Trump campaign of any coordination with Russia, and Barr himself concluded that the president did not obstruct justice. He did this by taking the almost 400-page Mueller report and summarizing it in just three and a half pages. Thats like tuning in to see the new season of Game of Thrones and its just Barr holding a sign that says, Dragons did some stuff. The end.  STEPHEN COLBERTThen Colbert moved on to discussing Trumps fondness for Herman Cain, the former pizza executive and onetime presidential candidate, whom Trump said he wants to nominate for the Federal Reserve Board.Most of Herman Cains business experience comes from running a pizza chain. Evidently Trump thinks Fed is short for fettuccine.  STEPHEN COLBERTA meat plant in New Hampshire is recalling more than 2,600 pounds of sausage products because theyre afraid the meat could contain metal. Even worse, it may contain whatever it is thats normally in a sausage.  JAMES CORDENA man from Lithuania is facing legal problems after it was discovered that he convinced Google and Facebook to pay fake invoices to fake companies. In total he got them to pay  get this  $122 million. Yes. Also, now Facebook and Google suddenly have a problem with fake news.  JAMES CORDENA Dominican singer attempted to break a Guinness world record recently by performing for over 100 consecutive hours. Big deal, try performing for 14 years, said Melania.  SETH MEYERS, referring to first lady Melania TrumpAunt Chippy and Guillermo got pranked into riding a 12-story zip line.With a feud brewing between Tucker Carlson of Fox News and Chris Hayes of MSNBC, Desus Nice and the Kid Mero were quick to side with Hayes, a fellow Bronx native.Nipsey Hussle, the Los Angeles rapper who was killed last week, was part of a cohort of young artists who are choosing to stay invested in their local communities, even as they chase national stardom.Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight:The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right NowThe 25 Best Films of the 21st CenturyThe Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right NowAn earlier version of this article misattributed a quote about a man from Lithuania. It was by James Corden, not Seth Meyers.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Roslyn SulcasSergei Polunin will dance at the Paris Opera Ballet. Sergei Polunin will not dance at the Paris Opera Ballet.Barely 48 hours passed between a tweet on Thursday announcing a coming guest appearance as Siegfried in Swan Lake by Mr. Polunin, whom many consider one of the finest male dancers of his generation, and an announcement on Saturday by the Opera that the invitation had been withdrawn.The withdrawal came after a furor on social media, responding to news of the Paris performances. Thats because, over the last two months, Mr. Polunin, a former principal at the Royal Ballet in London, has posted around a dozen Instagram messages trumpeting his dislike for homosexuals and females now trying to take on man role; and his desire to slap fat people for their lack of discipline. (This last, most recent message has been removed from Instagram.) Beyond those, he has used social media to address his admiration for Vladimir V. Putin, whose image is tattooed on his chest, and his support for Donald Trump.Mr. Polunin, 29, who has more than 170,000 Instagram followers, has achieved fame beyond the ballet world, thanks in part to his solo to Hoziers Take Me To Church, filmed by David LaChapelle, which attracted over 26 million views on YouTube.On the day that the news of his invitation to dance at the Opera was announced, Mr. Polunin wrote on Instagram: Got strong feeling What if Vladimir Putin would become leader of the world. I will pray for that because it would be ultimate win over evil. He added: I believe this will be the future and my energy will help him to do that.The Ukrainian-born Mr. Polunin, who holds both Russian and Ukrainian passports, has also posted several messages about the need to unite those two countries.Over the past two weeks, Mr. Polunins posts have seemed increasingly incoherent and troubling. He expressed homophobic and sexist sentiments in a rambling rant about male and female roles onstage and off: Man up to all men who is doing ballet there is already ballerina on stage dont need to be two; Man are wolfs man Are lions man are the leaders of theres family you suppose to take care of everything; Stop being weak be a man be a warrior whats wrong with you???Several Paris Opera Ballet dancers, dance critics and others, were quick to express dismay. Adrian Couvez, a corps de ballet member, addressed Mr. Polunin directly on Twitter. Such an embarrassment you are, he wrote, adding in French, to invite someone like this to Paris in 2019 is just impossible. Other dancers and members of the public weighed in, most criticizing the decision to invite Mr. Polunin.By Saturday, Aurlie Dupont, the artistic director of the Paris Opera Ballet announced that Mr. Polunin would not appear with the company. A press representative confirmed that Ms. Dupont had written in an internal email that while she recognized Mr. Polunins talent, she had discovered public statements that had shocked her, and which didnt correspond to her values or to those of the institution she represents. In response to a request for further comment from Ms. Dupont, a Paris Opera Ballet press representative said she has already responded and clearly stated her position.Other social media commenters were critical of Ms. Duponts decision. A renouncement that puts in question her authority and confirms political correctness, wrote one, while another wrote on Facebook that Mr. Polunin merely expressed things any rapper band has been bawling with impunity for decades.Mr. Polunins public unraveling is dismaying to the many who consider him a huge talent whose best dance years have been largely lost to the ballet world. Many of his followers have expressed concern for his mental health; others have defended his right to hold whatever political views he pleases. Mr. Polunin did not respond to a request for comment.His story is well known to ballet fans, and was the subject of a 2016 documentary, Dancer. The film shows his passage from an impoverished childhood in Kherson, Ukraine, to his arrival at the Royal Ballet School, speaking no English, at 13, and on to his meteoric success at the Royal Ballet, where he became the companys youngest-ever principal dancer at 19.Two years later, he abruptly resigned, declaring he was bored with ballet, its punishing physical regimen and meager financial rewards. He tweeted about taking drugs, drinking and going to parties, and about the tattoo parlor he co-owned. The British media wrote endlessly about him, calling him the bad boy of ballet, and bemoaning the loss of his talent.Mr. Polunin has since pursued a film career, appearing in small roles in Murder on the Orient Express, Red Sparrow and The White Crow. But his dance career has faltered. After leaving the Royal Ballet, he danced with the Stanislavsky Company in Moscow and he has been a permanent guest artist with the Bayerisches Staatsballett in Munich. (Igor Zelensky, the director of the Munich Ballet, was unavailable for comment.)But Mr. Polunins own venture, Project Polunin, and a joint program with his former girlfriend, the ballerina Natalia Osipova, have met with a tepid critical reception. He is currently scheduled to appear at the London Palladium at the end of May in what is described as a new mixed program.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Sydney Ember and Katie BennerIn February 2016, Giulianna Di Lauro, a Latino outreach strategist for Senator Bernie Sanderss presidential operation, complained to her supervisor that she had been harassed by a campaign surrogate whom she drove to events ahead of the Democratic primary in Nevada.She said the surrogate told her she had beautiful curly hair and asked if he could touch it, Ms. Di Lauro said in an interview. Thinking he would just touch a strand, she consented. But she said that he ran his hand through her hair in a sexual way and continued to grab, touch and push my boundaries for the rest of the day.I just wanted to be done with it so badly, she said.When she reported the incident to Bill Velazquez, a manager on the Latino outreach team, he told her, I bet you would have liked it if he were younger, according to her account and another woman who witnessed the exchange. Then he laughed.Accounts like Ms. Di Lauros  describing episodes of sexual harassment and demeaning treatment as well as pay disparity in Mr. Sanderss 2016 campaign  have circulated in recent weeks in emails, online comments and private discussions among former supporters. Now, as the Vermont senator tries to build support for a second run at the White House, his perceived failure to address this issue has damaged his progressive bona fides, delegates and nearly a dozen former state and national staff members said in interviews over the last month.And it has raised questions among them about whether he can adequately fight for the interests of women, who have increasingly defined the Democratic Party in the Trump era, if he runs again for the presidential nomination in 2020.The former staff members said complaints about mistreatment and pay disparity during and just after the campaign reached some senior leaders of the operation.In an interview Wednesday night on CNN, Mr. Sanders said he was proud of his 2016 campaign and attributed any missteps with staff members to the explosive growth that was sometimes overwhelming. Im not going to sit here and tell you that we did everything right, in terms of human resources, he told Anderson Cooper.I certainly apologize to any woman who felt she was not treated appropriately, and of course if I run we will do better the next time, he said.Asked if he knew about the staff complaints, he said, I was a little bit busy running around the country trying to make the case.Some women said the fledgling 2016 campaign was disorganized and decentralized, which made it hard to know whom to turn to in the case of mistreatment.I did experience sexual harassment during the campaign, and there was no one who would or could help, said Samantha Davis, the former director of operations in Texas and New York, who also worked on the campaigns advance team. She said that her supervisor marginalized her after she declined an invitation to his hotel room.In interviews, women told of makeshift living accommodations on the road, where they were asked to sleep in rooms along with male co-workers they didnt know. Women who had access to salary records were taken aback to learn that some female staff members made thousands of dollars less than their male counterparts.Two delegates who supported Mr. Sanders two years ago recently told his staff that he cant run for president again without addressing the sexism they believe surfaced in his last campaign.There was an entire wave of rotten sexual harassment that seemingly was never dealt with, one of the delegates wrote in a December email, obtained by The New York Times, to a Sanders political strategist.Jeff Weaver, Mr. Sanderss 2016 campaign manager and currently a top adviser, said in an email that anybody who committed harassment on the campaign would not be asked back and expressed regret for the operations shortcomings.Was it too male? Yes. Was it too white? Yes, he said. Would this be a priority to remedy on any future campaign? Definitely, and we share deeply in the urgency for all of us to make change. In 2016, as the size of our campaign exploded, we made efforts to make it a positive experience for people. That there was a failure pains me very much.Friends of Bernie Sanders, the senators campaign committee, said in a response to questions from The Times that there were a number of actions taken during the 2016 campaign regarding harassment and sexism, including employee counseling and a campaign-wide review to standardize pay, and that there was a set of procedures and guidelines for workplace conduct that staff members were required to read. It also said it had developed a new harassment policy for Mr. Sanderss Senate campaign last year.Allegations of sexism surfaced during Mr. Sanderss campaign in 2016, when many of his male fans were derogatorily dubbed Bernie Bros for their aggressive online attacks against female reporters and supporters of Hillary Clinton. But they did not overshadow the electrifying nature of his insurgent challenge.Circumstances have changed since then. Mr. Sanders is no longer an outsider, but an established leader who will be held to a higher standard. And regarding the treatment of women, he must now grapple with the effects of the #MeToo movement.Political campaigns can be grueling experiences for both the women and men involved. But some involved said they considered the treatment of women on the Sanders campaign especially upsetting because the senator positioned himself as a champion of progressive ideals and equality, according to interviews and messages shared on Facebook.I dont think he has to be the vehicle or the platform for the movement that emerged from his campaign, said Sarah Slamen, who worked for the campaign in Texas, was the state coordinator in Louisiana and helped build out Our Revolution, a progressive organization born from Mr. Sanderss presidential campaign.Do you know how hard that is for me to say after working so hard for him? she said.Ms. Slamen quit the organization at the end of 2016 after she said she was berated by a male member of the Our Revolution steering committee for suggesting an organizing plan. In emails reviewed by The Times, she raised issues about sexist behavior with committee members who saw the incident and Our Revolutions national board of directors. She said she received no reassurance that anything would change.In recent weeks, a Facebook group for campaign alumni has become a sounding board for complaints about harassment, lewd comments and gender discrimination. Some alumni have requested a meeting with the senator and his campaign leadership team to address the overall toxic atmosphere of the 2016 campaign, according to a screenshot of a post viewed by The Times. Politico first reported on the request.Ms. Di Lauro, the former strategist in Nevada, was emphatic in her own Facebook posts. I have to speak up about this now because I hope it will be of service to the next Sanders campaign, she wrote on Dec. 7.In her interview with The Times, Ms. Di Lauro said she told several people who were high up in the campaign, including Rich Pelletier, who served as national field director, about her encounter in Nevada with the surrogate, a Mexican game show host named Marco Antonio Regil. But she felt she was not taken seriously by the campaign.It was as if nothing happened, she said.Masha Mendieta, who was also on the Latino outreach team and who was with Ms. Di Lauro when she spoke with Mr. Velazquez about the incident, confirmed his comments.Mr. Velazquez said he does not recall making the flippant remark to Ms. Di Lauro and that he took her complaint seriously. He said he assigned two women to accompany the surrogate, and he checked in with them to make sure there were no problems.Mr. Regil said through his agent that he was honored to be a campaign surrogate for Mr. Sanders. I sincerely apologize for any interactions or behavior on my part that couldve made anyone feel uncomfortable, he said.Mr. Velasquez said he also told his boss, Arturo Carmona, another manager on the Latino outreach team and deputy national political director, about what had happened and followed up with a memo to Mr. Carmona two weeks later, detailing the incident in an email and saying that he believed Ms. Di Lauro.Mr. Carmona said in an email to The Times that, after Mr. Velazquez notified him about the incident, he reported it to Mr. Pelletier.The senators campaign committee, in its responses to The Times, said no member of the leadership above Mr. Pelletier was aware of the incident until after the campaign.The committee said managers in some cases had not received appropriate training. With the benefit of hindsight, the surprise explosion of the campaign resulted in there being less-than-ideal training infrastructure, it said.Mr. Pelletier did not respond to phone messages and emails seeking comment.Pay disparity became another source of frustration among some women, according to former staff members, especially given that labor was one of the senators signature issues. During his campaign, Mr. Sanders earned kudos for paying his interns, a relatively unheard-of practice.Some former staff members said there was little pay transparency, and employees often negotiated their own salaries  practices that tend to favor men, who often feel more comfortable requesting higher compensation packages.Ms. Davis, the former state director, said that she was originally paid about $2,400 a month as a senior staff member and saw in the campaigns records that a younger man who was originally supposed to report to her made $5,000 a month. She said that she brought the issue to the campaigns chief operating officer, who adjusted her salary to achieve parity.I helped at least a dozen women request raises so that they would be paid on par with their male peers, Ms. Davis said.The senators campaign committee acknowledged that there were pay disparities but said salaries were based on experience or the nature of the job and never determined based on any consideration of an individuals gender or of any other personal characteristic.During the campaign, the committee said, it conducted a review to try to standardize pay across the states and within headquarters.Frustration among campaign alumni boiled over in recent weeks when Mr. Carmona, the deputy national political director and a divisive figure on the 2016 campaign, appeared smiling in a photograph in early December with Mr. Sanderss wife, Jane, at a symposium hosted by her organization, the Sanders Institute.In 2017, when Mr. Carmona was running for Congress, Ms. Mendieta, the woman who worked with Ms. Di Lauro, came forward with allegations that Mr. Carmona had demeaned women during the 2016 campaign. Ms. Mendieta said in a March 2017 post on Medium that Mr. Carmona treated female staffers like his personal assistants fetching things for him and doing his errands.Other women backed up Ms. Mendietas allegations, and a letter signed by dozens of former campaign staffers and surrogates was circulated urging progressives to withdraw their endorsements of Mr. Carmona. (He lost his special election primary bid in 2017.)In an interview, Ms. Mendieta said that she complained multiple times to Mr. Velazquez and Mr. Pelletier about Mr. Carmona and was repeatedly ignored, at one point being told by Mr. Velazquez that she should forgive Mr. Carmonas behavior because he was macho.Mr. Velazquez said that he did not remember making that remark or anything like it.Ms. Mendieta was among the Latino outreach team members who she said were expected to stay in a run-down house in Chicago in March 2016. When she arrived, she said she was told she was supposed to sleep in a room with three men she did not know.I was shaking with fear, she said. Literally, I remember thinking to myself, What am I going to do? She said she reported the incident to Mr. Pelletier.The campaign committee said that the challenge of finding staffer housing is one that plagues every large campaign. It said it knew of one instance that was brought to the attention of senior leaders, including Mr. Weaver, the campaign manager, and that both Mr. Weaver and the chief operating officer ordered that staff never be housed in coed hotel rooms again.Some weeks later, Ms. Mendieta and other members of the Latino outreach team shared their concerns about Mr. Carmona and Mr. Velazquez during a conference call with Mr. Pelletier, Ms. Mendieta said.  The Times has reviewed an email scheduling the call, and another staff member who participated confirmed the substance of the discussion.Mr. Carmona was promoted out of the Latino outreach group during the campaign and named a deputy national political director.Mr. Carmona, in an email, denied the allegations that he was demeaning and said, All sexual harassment and issues of discrimination should be taken seriously and investigated thoroughly.Kitty Bennett, Doris Burke and Alain Delaqurire contributed research.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byStuff and ThingsA small and powerful society of Viners create Amazons reality. But is there such a thing as too much free stuff?By John HerrmanA U.P.S. driver once said the house set his delivery record: 32 packages in one day. There have been bigger days since, and the burden is now spread across three carriers. Most of it falls to the local postal carriers. They used to make the rounds in a sedan until the sheer volume of packages delivered up the hill each week required them to upgrade to a truck. The boxes have slowed lately, but something arrives almost every day. The boxes crowd the porch  this is up in a tranquil stretch of the Blue Ridge Mountains  before gradually making their way inside, past the patio table, which came from a box, and its four chairs, from boxes all. The living room was largely furnished from the boxes: a couch, an end table, rugs, the love seat. In the bedroom, the boxes account for artwork, linens, a clothes rack, the mattress and several pillows, of course. The extra window unit air-conditioners: white boxes from brown boxes. The kitchen is stocked from the flow of boxes the knife block, the espresso machine, the convection oven  as are the homes closets. The office is almost all box furniture, printers (regular and 3-D), computer, at least 13 hard drives and four routers. The art on the walls came this way; the new shelves installed to store the items from the porch boxes came through porch boxes. The camera system through which the porch boxes are surveilled was itself unpacked from a porch box. The worry is thieves, though the camera mostly catches wildlife: rabbits, turkeys and mice, with an elk every once in a while, and, so far, one coyote and a bear.K.T., 54, shares this home, and these boxes, with her husband and two dogs. Shes a volunteer animal rescue transport driver and a former proofreader, but now much of her time and attention is devoted to box intake and processing. She does most of her shopping online, she said; the nearest town only has about a thousand residents, and its usually more convenient to order. That, and the fact the vast majority of these boxes arrive free of charge courtesy of Amazon itself.K.T. is an Amazon Vine Voice. Amazon sends her free stuff; she, as an established and trusted reviewer, tests it out and writes reviews. During a recent gathering she joked with family that her spouse was wearing Vine socks, Vine jeans, a Vine shirt, Vine underwear, and had on Vine cologne. There are thousands of Vine Voices, but K.T. is almost certainly among the most prolific. Over the years, she has passed in and out of Amazons overall Top 100 reviewer rankings. The Times agreed to not identify her. For Vine reviewers, identifying information names, email addresses, websites  can be construed as a solicitation for free products from non-Vine sources, which Amazon can decide is grounds for removal from the program.And K.T. takes her responsibilities seriously, dedicating time to each new item that emerges from the boxes and writing reviews that are succinct but complete. She helps run an online community for other Vine Voices theres another Viner in her town; she traveled out of state to meet the co-moderator of her community, whom she considers a close friend and has reshaped her life around the program. Its only been about three years, she said, so Im sort of new.If you invested $5,000 in Amazon in August of 2007, when Vine was announced, your stock would now be worth more than $100,000. If, instead, you had started reviewing your Amazon purchases, built a reputation as a reliable reviewer, secured an invite to the Vine program, kept your head down, filed your assignments and avoided the occasional purges of reviewers, your take-home total might today exceed that number, although in somewhat less liquid forms: five vacuums here; 14 hard drives there; some laptops and cellphones; Bluetooth speakers, and headphones, and headsets, and, well, pretty much anything with Bluetooth, so much Bluetooth, mouthful after mouthful of blue teeth. The program was intended, in the companys telling, to help its vendors generate awareness for new and prerelease products by connecting them with the voice of the Amazon community. Then, as now, but especially then, the Amazon reviewer community was at turns close-knit and competitive. Being part of the Vine program at the very beginning gave me a sense of duty, said Diana de Avila, who had already been writing Amazon reviews since the mid 90s. I thought, oh my gosh, this large, emerging company is just growing by leaps and bounds, and they wanted me to be part of this apparatus, she said. In 2007 it was, as apparatuses go, primitive. On the third Thursday of each month, Ms. de Avila would take a seat at her computer a little before 3 p.m. and start refreshing, knowing that around the country, other Viners were doing the same. A monthly list would be posted to an internal portal and go out in an email as well. There might be a dozen items, each in limited quantities. The lists were heavy on books at first. Many of them would be gone in seconds, she remembered, and there were often technical difficulties. That was the excitement of it, she said. I was pretty quick at the draw, so I got some pretty good stuff, Ms. de Avila said. I got multiple cameras, video cameras, probably more than a dozen.Sign up here to receive Wait , a weekly newsletter in which Caity Weaver investigates a question in the news and pop culture.Users could then go to a special Vine-only forum on Amazons site and discuss what theyd gotten. It was a fairly small world there werent very many products or very many reviewers and also there were limits on how many users could claim. The forum thrived and suffered in ways that were characteristic of online communities of the time: There were habitual posters, show-offs, trolls and critics, and of course a steady supply of know-nothing newbies, newly invited by Amazon. The company itself was nearly silent: Aside from occasional announcements and necessary interventions, it left the forum to the Vine reviewers. I sometimes think that maybe Amazon was reading, Ms. de Avila said.The program swelled in both membership and inventory. A monthly email from 2011, for example, contained over 400 items, including a baby food maker, a line of Taco Bell sauces, a package of sticky notes, a dispenser for sticky notes, a few wall mounts for TVs and books, lots of books. The letters USB appear 42 times. Vine was a relic of an older web for a long time. Email newsletters! User forums! But in 2016, the service received a substantial overhaul. The emails and posts were replaced with a pair of feeds: One was targeted to each individual Vine user, based on preferences and shopping habits, and the other was visible to everyone. Old limits were lifted: You could now review as many products as you wanted.In 2015, Amazon had begun asking Vine reviewers for their tax information, which meant that, over a certain value, Vine products were no longer free, really. Review products count as income; their tax value, as calculated by Amazon, can be a major factor in which products Vine reviewers choose to have delivered. The most prolific reviewers have tax burdens in the tens of thousands of dollars. There are rules, loosely enforced but taken seriously. Amazon-branded products belong to you immediately; other products can be recalled up to six months later, and therefore cant be sold or given away. (This rarely happens, if ever. The boldest Viners sell products right away, while some become extremely generous with charity. A super-Viner almost doesnt have a choice, for space reasons alone.)We ask Vine Voices not to resell products for six months, Angie Newman, an Amazon spokeswoman, said in an email. After that, the product is theirs and they can use it or dispose of it as they see fit.Many donate enough to alleviate their tax burdens, but no more, so as not to attract the wrong kind of attention to their arrangements, unique as they are, and lacking anything in the way of guidance from Amazon itself.Now Vine was recreated in the image of the internet around it an internet of interminable feeds and customized content, an endless space that can be checked and rechecked but never quite finished, demanding as much as youre willing to give it. If Facebooks feed let you gorge on birth announcements and conspiracy theories, and Instagrams on photos of dogs and, I guess, mimetic desire, Vines feed similarly aware of your habits and always refreshedopened the door to actual things, distributed in the manner of content. While most of us experience Amazons surveillance with a mixture of annoyance and bemusement you are never allowed to forget what items youve looked at on Amazon, at least not until you buy them Vine reviewers have learned to exploit it. You can try to signal to it, K.T. said. I searched for drones, hoping they would show up in my targeting. (No luck yet.) Sometimes Vines behaviors give the impression of something far less intelligent: Some Viners described getting clothing in more-or-less random sizes.In 2017, Amazon removed the Vine discussion forums from its site; Amazon didnt share its reasons with Vine reviewers. (Logged-in reviewers still see a link to the forums on their profiles, but it leads nowhere.) To the extent there is a coherent Vine community still, it is spread across multiple private groups on Goodreads, the book review site owned by Amazon, and smaller communities further afield, on Reddit and Craigslist. They are throwbacks to the old Vine, and the old web: There are groups and splinter groups, cross-forum enemies, reputations and rivalries. Mostly, though, the forums serve the same needs that the old official forum did. Theyre a place where people who are part of this odd program that theyre not supposed to talk about can figure out whats going on in a system that changes constantly without notice, in the shadow of the company that is both an intense part of their lives and outwardly indifferent to their existence.In a Craigslist forum, for example, users spent recent weeks commiserating about their suddenly shrinking review queues. (They were restored shortly after, but posters werent happy with how: Mine has been restocked as well, but with things I dont need, said one. Thats it  junk. Another user warned others off a particular brand of chocolates hed gotten for his wife: They werent even edible and had a strange odor. They discussed a recent investigation by the website The Verge into Amazons treatment of sellers (great reading and it confirms everything we already know!). They attempted to troubleshoot minor issues (Amazons brand Solimo, which makes a variety of household goods, seems to break the Vine interface for some reason) and major issues (a technical error reported last year, which exposed some Amazon users data, including email addresses, has created a huge problem for affected Vine reviewers: a flood of emails from overseas sellers attempting to bribe them for reviews and, in some cases, threatening to falsely tell Amazon that theyre doing it anyway). The forum has a resident tax expert.They talk about the weather, on planets Earth and Amazon. Reviewers are sometimes removed from the program without notice, or are reinstated. Sometimes theyre told they broke rules they didnt believe theyd broken; other times, forum users are left to assume theyve been culled by some sort of automated system designed to root out fraud, only to be brought back days later, after appeal. Theyre also friends. K.T. described the old Vine forums as cliquish, and then, in their final days, gripped, like so many communities online, by politics. They were all liberal, and a few of us werent, so they made an assumption that I support Trump, she said, and that was that. She helps moderate one of the Goodreads forums now. Its calmer. Whats your life like? What do you do? Then general happy stuff, she said. Theres a photo gallery thread for a member who is a great photographer. We are the same as any quilters group, or book club, that meets or chats about whatever common interests they enjoy, she said. These are her Vine people. The other Goodreads forum has its Vine people too, and they all have Vine, and Amazon has them all.From a sky-high view, the reason Amazon is so successful is that its easy for people to find things on Amazon, said Rachel Johnson Greer, a former Amazon employee of eight years, and currently the managing partner of Cascadia Seller Solutions, a firm that helps sellers on Amazons Marketplace. But the pool of products Amazon now draws from is, in most categories, large and not readily countable. And so, as with Google search results, getting your product on the first page of results for a specific term or giving it a chance of floating upward in one of the sites countless recommendation or discovery mechanisms is crucial. In its earliest days, Amazon operated in plainer view: Products were categorized, then found by customers, then reviewed by customers. The good stuff ranked higher, the junk drifted out of view. Now, when customers dont just have countless alternatives to a particular product but multiple ways on the site to buy the same product, even a potentially beloved product needs a leg up. Its a little bit of a Catch-22, said Ms. Greer. To show up in search, you have to have been clicked. To have been clicked, you have to show up in search. Your listings are more visible if people have clicked on and purchased your products.Handily, Amazon is also an advertising platform you can pay for people to see your product when they search for or look at certain things. But the economics are punishing. If there are no reviews, people wont click, said Ms. Greer. If you have a product that dips below 3.5 or 4 stars, your advertising cost doubles or triples. To get the same clicks, you have to do a lot more advertising. People arent as willing to convert when there are lower reviews, and theyre not as likely to click in the first place. To get the clicks, you need to bid higher. In that case, you would turn to other methods. You can advertise on Google. (Expensive.) You can hire influencers. (Works for some, useless for others; risky.) Or you can consider Vine. Participation in Vine is usually negotiated as part of vendor contracts with Amazon, according to the company. If you start off with 30 four-star reviews, you have a leg up on everybody, Ms. Greer said. Amazon has been testing Vine for Marketplace members  semi-independent sellers who now account for a majority of Amazons total sales  who, in 2016, were prohibited from soliciting incentivized reviews on their own. The initial price quoted to sellers was $1,000 per unique catalog item.In her view, this strategy is effective and, for the right products, economical. Amazon is a largely click-driven ecosystem, and reviews are a great way to get clicks. The main risk, she says, is that some Vine reviewers can be picky. They get a lot of stuff; yours probably isnt the first pair of wireless earbuds theyve used, or even reviewed. A four-star review average gets you through the door. Below three stars might close it completely. The earbuds better work. For Amazon, Vine is a legitimate, or at least sanctioned, alternative to one of the churning black markets that have manifested around the company. In the course of trying to contact Vine reviewers, whose contact information is not available on their Amazon profiles, I discovered sites where their email addresses not listed on Amazon, but apparently scraped or hacked were available for sale. There have long been attempts to manufacture independent Vine programs of a sort. Unscrupulous vendors or sellers can pay click-farmers to view their product listings again and again, manufacturing interest, as far as Amazon is concerned, in products that were otherwise going unseen. The black market for reviews is, despite Amazons pledges to fight it, vast and largely out of the companys control. The least sophisticated operations can be discovered with a quick search on Facebook or the messaging app Telegram, where Review Groups are full of instructions to buy a product, send a PayPal account to an email address, and to expect reimbursement, and maybe a little more, in return. With names like US Reliable Reviewers-Free&Discount Products, some of these groups have thousands of members. Accordingly, fake or at least unofficially incentivized  reviews are rampant on Amazon. A recent study by the e-commerce consultancy Fakespot estimated that 61 percent of electronics reviews are in violation of the sites rules. Reporters at The Washington Post found that product ratings tended to drop when questionable reviews were removed. The question of whether Vine reviews themselves are tainted by the way in which the products are supplied is easy to recast in the context of rampant fraud: at least its out there in the open. (K.T., the Vine reviewer, took pride in her work; other Vine reviewers granted that some in the program really did just want free stuff, but insisted that those motivated for grift dont last long.)The whole process of reviews on Amazon can be really frustrating, said Ms. Greer. By default, Amazon created this problem by defining search results this way. Amazons update to the adage includes the companys name twice: You have to spend money on Amazon to make money on Amazon.Vine has a few plausible futures. Current users note that it is functionally sort of rickety a mixture of old interfaces and new ones, clearly run by a relatively small team. In some ways, it has never fully grown up. When reviewers receive items, sometimes theyre affixed with cardboard tags, which Amazon uses to designate what sort of sample the shipment is. There are six check marks on the tag, categories that include marketing and pre-production and fitting. Theres no box for Vine, so sometimes a seventh box gets penciled in, a hand-drawn one that is hand-labeled Vine, and then checked by the same hand. Maybe Vine gets sidelined, and replaced with something else its been 10 years, anyway, and Amazon is always trying new things. (For example, it recently began rolling out a program to send free samples to users on behalf of major brands.) But the volume of products coming through Vine is still high, and the company clearly understands its utility beyond the fees it charges vendors. Amazons extensive and growing collection of private labels and exclusive brands also subscribes to the program, its listings topped up with conspicuously labeled Vine Voice reviews. Vine Voices make visible contributions to the ongoing construction of Amazons retail reality, review by review, star by star.Vine has already changed a lot, changing with it the lives of its reviewers. The life of a super-Viner is one for which not everyone is well adapted. Last year, on Reddit, a Vine reviewer who had been in the program since 2007 shared that she had been kicked out. Im getting ready to downsize, she said, and was so relieved to log in tonight and see that I am no longer a part of Amazon Vine.She continued: Pretty much my whole house is furnished with Amazon Vine. I eat Amazon Vine daily, and groom with Amazon Vine daily. I was no longer selective. I got divorced some years ago and it was nice to not want to take any material things with me because I knew goodies would be coming my way, and I was blessed with so much. Its a startling sentiment, to be relieved to no longer have access to, effectively, unlimited free stuff. But commenters other Viners were generally sympathetic. In a private message, she explained to me how she had drifted into a state of overconsumption. Things were exciting for a few years, she said, mentioning the same thrill in nabbing a good item, or a shiny, enjoying the rhythmic patterns of old Vine.But then the feed came along. I found myself checking the queue a dozen times a day, she said. I didnt want to miss the next great thing.People tend to consider purchases. But when things are given to you, and its your job to review them, the value of the object gets scrambled in surprising ways, and its influence on your life becomes easy to minimize, or disregard. The free rug needs artwork to match. You wanted a road bike, but the beach cruiser was free, and now you have a bike, but you dont really ride it. You get a Keurig, and you hate it, but Vine keeps sending K-cups, and so you keep drinking them. Eventually, I think Vine caught on that I wanted a Nespresso from my search history, she wrote, and I was finally offered a Nespresso. I have eleven Vine watches, yet I only wear two on a regular basis, she said. Before Vine, I did not even own a watch, as I considered them old-fashioned when you can check the time on your cellphone.Asked if she felt Vine had altered her relationship with material goods, K.T., the Vine reviewer in the Blue Ridge Mountains, suggested they consider how it might allow them to give back. I pray for thanks and the blessing of Vine every day, she said. Shes grateful, she says, not just to have access to this conduit of things that she might need or wants, or for the ways it allows her to be generous with other people, but for the task itself. Im just a regular person, Ive got no claim to fame, she said. NASA isnt calling on me, she said. But Amazon is. Sort of.  Like many Viners, she been girding for bad news for years, just in case. Youre getting so much good from this, and youre not doing anything special, she said. Her boxes and what has effectively become her job could cease tomorrow. To Amazon, youre abstract. For me. its an actual, physical, material manifestation. Its here, its present in my life, she said. Im just hoping that if I give quality reviews, she said, trailing off. Until it smacks me in the face, I dont need to add complications in my life.Ms. de Avilas choice to leave Vine was a rare one. She echoed the sentiment shared on Reddit, that consumption divorced from what typically dictates it  not just price, but need and desire can have surprising effects. In 2014, she moved to a smaller home in a new place. She started getting rid of stuff. She was getting behind on her reviews, and started to feel guilty. She was losing her Sundays to Vine, just to catch up, and the boxes just kept coming. It was becoming more and more difficult to become excited about receiving gifts from people, she said. It was kind of like someone who wins the lottery. It was too much stuff, and too much expectation. Perhaps it was her keener-than-usual awareness of how stuff fits into your life, or her previous experiences dealing with less-than-communicative omniscient beings. I was a nun for seven years, she said, so I come from a different kind of material perspective: Take what you need. Dont overuse. But she was also a dedicated early adopter she was a Google Glass Explorer, for example, helping the company test out its controversial and since-shelved smart glasses  and had been seeking a sense of purpose after retiring from her secular career in information technology. Ms. de Avila was also living with multiple sclerosis. Vine arrived at the right time. It gave me a way to build meaning, she said, leaving a corporate job with a lot of responsibility. Receiving boxes from Amazon, and completing the corresponding Vine tasks, gave her a temporary new identity.I loved it, she said, I just knew it was time to step away. When she did, she said, she was at peace. She doesnt miss it. Lately, Ms. de Avila has been cultivating what she said was a sudden-onset new ability that she described as arriving after a relapse with multiple sclerosis, and has devoted herself to creating art. She is particularly drawn to fractals images that are self-similar no matter their scale and has been accepted into juried exhibitions near her home in Florida. Ive discovered that art has become the ultimate benefactor for me, she wrote on her own website, where she sells her work directly to consumers. Its gifts, she said, are bottomless.John Herrman covers tech and media for the Times Magazine, and was one of the first three recipients of The Times's David Carr Fellowship. Previously, he was a reporter for the Business section.  @jwherrman Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily S. RuebThe March issue of the National Rifle Associations monthly publication, The American Rifleman, features a photo of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Gabrielle Giffords, the former Democratic congresswoman from Arizona who was shot in the head during a constituent meeting in 2011.The photo, taken last month at an announcement about proposed legislation to expand background checks for firearms purchases, carried the headline in large letters: Target Practice.The article, written by Chris W. Cox, the executive director of the N.R.A.s lobbying arm, described Ms. Pelosi as an arch anti-gunner, and said the proposal was being deceptively marketed to the public and was a broadside against gun ownership in America.On Friday, a political reporter at HuffPost, Jennifer Bendery, posted photographs of the article on Twitter, setting off rounds of criticism about the juxtaposition of the headline and photo.Fred Guttenberg, whose daughter was killed in the 2018 mass shooting in Parkland, Fla., condemned the N.R.A. and said on Twitter that the layout was an incitement of violence.Senator Christopher S. Murphy, a Connecticut Democrat who has been a vocal supporter of gun restrictions since the 2012 mass shooting at an elementary school in Newtown, Conn., said on Twitter that the magazines editorial decisions were not accidental.Representative Eric Swalwell, a Democrat of California, said on Twitter that the layout was a call for violence and that the N.R.A. should face legal consequences.But lets put them out of business with boycotts and ballot boxes, he wrote.Responding to Mr. Swalwell, Representative Dan Crenshaw, a Republican from Texas, denied that the N.R.A. was targeting Democrats.How can you claim this? Are you deliberately lying or did you just not read it? Mr. Crenshaw wrote on Twitter. The article is about legislation targeting gun owners, not the N.R.A. targeting Democrats. If your goal is to ensure that outrage culture is alive and well, continuing to divide us, congrats.The N.R.A. did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Sunday.Peter Ambler, the executive director of Giffords, an umbrella group that supports gun violence prevention and that was named for Ms. Giffords, called the headline reprehensible.Evoking threats of violence should never be tolerated, he said. Words matter. This headline should tell us all we need to know about how wildly out of touch the N.R.A. is with its own members and how low they will stoop to advance their damaging agenda at the expense of our safety.A spokesman for Ms. Pelosi declined to comment, but her daughter Christine Pelosi said on Twitter that this hate speech should not get in the way of common sense gun violence prevention such as #HR8, the congressional background check bill, which is expected to come to the House floor for a vote this week.The N.R.A. magazines latest issue surfaced after high-profile government officials were the recent targets of veiled or explicit threats of violence.President Trumps longtime adviser, Roger J. Stone Jr., who is under indictment on charges brought by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, posted a photo of the federal judge handling his criminal case with what appeared to be the cross hairs of a gun near her head.Separately, Ms. Pelosis name emerged on a list of Democrats and journalists that officials said was put together by Christopher P. Hasson, a Coast Guard lieutenant whom federal investigators labeled a domestic terrorist. They said he planned to assassinate prominent figures.OpinionAdvertisement"
"FeatureThe former Senate majority leader on President Trump and Senator Chuck Schumer, and on why he doesnt regret ending the filibuster for judicial appointments.Harry Reid in Nevada in December.CreditCreditDan Winters for The New York TimesSupported byBy Mark LeibovichEarly on the afternoon of Dec. 11, about an hour after an Oval Office meeting between President Trump, the Senate minority leader Chuck Schumer and the incoming House speaker Nancy Pelosi devolved on live TV into a shouting match  a tinkle contest with a skunk, in Pelosis postgame grandiloquence  I pulled up to a McMansion in a gated community outside Las Vegas. I presented my ID and pre-issued bar-code pass to a security guard. Another guard emerged from a sedan in the driveway, instructed me to leave my rental car across the street and pointed me to the front door.I put this out here because I knew you were coming, Harry Reid, the former Senate leader, said, pointing to a large gold menorah on his desk. It was not clear whether Reid had someone buy the menorah especially for my visit or just keeps one lying around in case some reporter of (nominal) Jewish identity happens to drop by around Hanukkah. (Reids wife, Landra, was raised in a Jewish household in Los Angeles before she and Reid converted to Mormonism together, after they married.) Either way, Reid seemed both amused and pleased with himself, as if he could see that I was not quite sure how to receive this odd-duck gesture. During his time in office, he always got a kick out of embracing the awkward panders of political life, even if  especially if  they mocked the refinements of smoother politicians than him.Reid, who is 79, does not have long to live. I hate to be so abrupt about this, but Reid probably would not mind. In May, he went in for a colonoscopy, the results of which caused concern among his doctors. This led to an M.R.I. that turned up a lesion on Reids pancreas: cancer. Reids subdued and slightly cold manner, and aggressive anticharisma, have always made him an admirably blunt assessor of situations, including, now, his own: As soon as you discover you have something on your pancreas, youre dead.I had planned to visit Reid, who had not granted an interview since his cancer diagnosis, in November, but he put me off, saying he felt too weak. People close to him were saying that he had months left, if not weeks. Valedictories were planned, and lifetime awards were bestowed. Efforts were underway to rename the Las Vegas airport in his honor, preferably before his own time of departure. Reid refuses to believe that this honor will ever happen. When I practiced law, I did a lot of personal-injury work, and I never spent one penny until that check was cashed, he explained to me.When I went to see him in December, he was confined to a desk near the front door of the house, unable to move without the aid of a walker that rested behind him. Still, he looked better than I thought he would. The last time I saw Reid, during the 2016 presidential campaign, he was wearing dark glasses and was still bruised from a freakish exercise-session mishap in early 2015, when an elastic band apparently snapped and propelled him into some cabinets, breaking ribs and bones in his face and blinding him in his right eye. The visible damage from this incident had abated at last. Wearing a tan sweater over a dress shirt, he looked about how he did a decade ago: roughly his current age, in other words.Reids health, even before the cancer diagnosis, was a factor in opting not to seek re-election for a sixth Senate term in 2016. Over the last few months, he has had chemotherapy and two back surgeries and has suffered a range of other ordeals, some related to the accident, for which Trump delighted in mocking him. I think he should go back and start working out again with his rubber workout pieces, Trump said in an interview with The Washington Post in September 2016.In fairness, Reid had dismissed Trump as a spoiled brat, a con man and a human leech. As Senate majority leader, Reid was essential to passing President Barack Obamas legislative agenda, but his dead-eyed realism and morose tones always hung in contrast to the hope-and-change intoxications of those years. His den is adorned with a bright painted portrait of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr.  one of his heroes, whose view that the arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice was often echoed by Obama. But Reid himself always seemed more predisposed to believing that the arc of the universe bent toward an ornery brawl.Reid once called the Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan a political hack, Justice Clarence Thomas an embarrassment and President George W. Bush a loser (for which he later apologized) and a liar (for which he did not). In 2016, he dismissed Trump as a big fat guy who didnt win many fights. Reid himself was more than ready to fight, and fight dirty: I was always willing to do things that others were not willing to do, he told me.During the 2012 presidential campaign, he claimed, with no proof, that Mitt Romney had not paid any taxes over the past decade. Romney released tax returns showing that he did. After the election, Reid told CNN by way of self-justification, Romney didnt win, did he? Reid took rightful criticism over this. Still, in retrospect, theres something almost quaint about the outrage over the episode; Trump routinely surpasses Reids unscrupulousness with a few tweets before breakfast.Leaving Washington on the eve of Trumps takeover, Reid insisted that he was happy to be escaping. Maybe, he allowed, it would have been different if Hillary Clinton had won. But with this, no, he told New York magazine at the time. Im not going to miss it.And yet, two years later, it was easy to sense him pining for not just the political action but also the particular political action of Trumps Washington. No one would enjoy the fight with Trump like Harry Reid would, said Senator Claire McCaskill, the Missouri Democrat who lost her re-election race in November. The president is an inherently weak man, she said. Harry would smell the weakness and say, Damn the consequences.?In some ways, Washington, under Trump, has devolved into the feral state that Reid, in his misanthropic heart, always knew it could become under the right conditions. Politicians are always claiming to be eternal optimists; Reid is no optimist. I figure, if youre pessimistic, youre never disappointed, he told me.Reid has decided to live out his last years in Henderson, a fast-growing and transient Las Vegas suburb. His house is in the upscale Anthem neighborhood: a fortified village of beige dwellings of various sizes and otherwise indistinguishable appearances. There is a Witness Protection Program vibe to the place, accentuated by the security detail.Reid attended high school in Henderson, hitchhiking 45 miles each way from his hometown, Searchlight: a drive-through smudge of a town between Las Vegas and Needles, Calif., which, in his youth, boasted at least a half-dozen brothels and not a single church. His acidic outlook was informed by his childhood, during which he endured extreme poverty and dysfunction and substance abuse in his family. He took up boxing in high school and put himself through George Washington University Law School by working as a Capitol Police officer. Back in Nevada, he was schooled in the piranha bowl of Las Vegas politics. This education included a stint as Nevadas gaming chairman in the 1970s, which placed him in the cross hairs of the Las Vegas mob. (Some of the plot of the film Casino was based loosely on Reids experiences.) There were numerous threats to his life and at least one actual attempt (a bomb discovered under the hood of his family car).The former F.B.I. director James Comey, after he was fired by Trump, compared Trump to the head of a mafia family, with its codes of silence and loyalty, its fear-based leadership style and fealty to a single godfather. Its not about anything else except the boss, Comey said in a recent interview at the 92nd Street Y in New York. Others have drawn the same parallel, and I asked Reid if, given his unusually relevant professional experience in this area, it rang true. Reid expelled a quick and dismissive chuckle. Organized crime is a business, he told me, and they are really good with what they do. But they are better off when things are predictable. In my opinion, they do not do well with chaos. And thats what we have going with Trump.Still, Reid added: Trump is an interesting person. He is not immoral but is amoral. Amoral is when you shoot someone in the head, it doesnt make a difference. No conscience. There was a hint of grudging respect in Reids tone, which he seemed to catch and correct. I think he is without question the worst president weve ever had, he said. Weve had some bad ones, and theres not even a close second to him. He added: Hell lie. Hell cheat. You cant reason with him. Once more, a hint of wonder crept into his voice, as if he was describing a rogue beast on the loose in a jungle that Reid knows well.The Trump era and Reids illness have occasioned an inevitable reconsideration of Reids legacy and all its contradictions. The Affordable Care Act, which Reid managed to navigate past the oppositional tactics of his persistent nemesis, the Republican Senate leader (and now majority leader), Mitch McConnell, has so far withstood McConnell and Trumps efforts to dismantle the legislation. Reid was also prescient in urging the Obama administration and congressional Republicans to go public about the investigation into Russian meddling in the 2016 election; the letter that Republican leaders agreed to co-sign weeks after they were briefed on the investigation did not identify Russia by name. They did nothing  or nothing that Im aware of, Reid said.But McConnells and Trumps own most substantial accomplishment to date, the appointment to the federal bench of an unprecedented number of conservative judges, including two Supreme Court justices who might well end up hearing a challenge to the Affordable Care Act, was made vastly easier by Reids decision, in 2013, to get rid of the filibuster for judicial appointments. Reid remains unrepentant about this. They can say what they want, he told me. We had over 100 judges that we couldnt get approved, so I had no choice. Either Obamas presidency would be a joke or Obamas presidency would be one of fruition.Still, a certain nostalgia for the Senate leader has set in among Democrats, even those who had their disagreements with him. McCaskill was critical of Reid during their tenure together and did not back him for caucus leader in 2014. There are two major components of a Senate leaders job, she said. One is to make the trains run on time and getting things done that his caucus believes in, McCaskill told me. But the trains need to be bright and shiny while theyre running, she added, referring to the communication and messaging part of the job that she said Reid was less well suited to.McCaskill told Reid at the time that she did not plan to vote for him and explained her reasons to him. He replied that she was the only one of his nonsupporters who had the nerve to tell him directly. Oh, no, why would I? Reid told me when I asked him if he felt betrayed. And I won, didnt I?Reids successor is Chuck Schumer, his former caucus deputy who engineered much of the Senate Democrats communications and campaign strategy during Reids tenure. They had been close during Reids 12 years as Democratic leader, Reid serving as the arid desert yin to Schumers bombastic Brooklyn yang. When we spoke, Reid told me he did not wish to be seen as second-guessing Schumer. My personal feeling should have nothing to do with it, he said. But clearly Reid has more than a few of those personal feelings. He has told confidants that he felt Schumer was too eager to assume his job before Reid was ready to leave. Reid has also criticized, privately, Schumers instinct for accommodation with both McConnell and Trump.In our conversation, Reid seemed incapable of not constantly reminding me that he did not wish to talk about Schumer, as if this itself was something he wanted me to emphasize. I do not call Schumer, he told me. Then: I call him once in a while  not weekly. Lets say monthly I may call him. This sounded straightforward enough until he added: I talk to Nancy often. I love Nancy Pelosi. We did so many good things, and we still talk about that. And just the day before, he said, he called Richard Durbin, the Illinois Democrat who, along with Schumer, was Reids top lieutenant in the Senate and is now Schumers Democratic whip. We came to the House together in 1982, Reid said of Durbin. We had wonderful conversations. (Schumer declined to be interviewed; his spokesman said in a statement that Schumer and Reid have different styles but they complemented each other well. They are still good friends and talk regularly.)In fairness, theres little that any Democratic leader can do at a time when the opposing party controls the presidency and both houses of Congress, as Republicans did until this month. Durbin told me that he has sat with Schumer and Trump together at the White House. They are discussing things at a New York level that most of us on the outside dont understand, Durbin said. With Chuck, its his grandfather who had some business with Trumps father or some darned thing. Its a totally different ballgame.I asked Durbin whether this approach had yielded any results. The obvious answer, he conceded, is it hasnt worked very well so far.David Krone, Reids former chief of staff, is of the view that leaving Washington saved Reids life. He wouldnt be alive today if he had pancreatic cancer and he was still the Senate leader, he told me. He would not have made it. Still, Krone said, I think he misses it, definitely.When he was in Washington, Reid used to spend an inordinate amount of time on the Senate floor. I was always afraid that I would miss something, Reid used to say and told me again in Nevada. In retirement, he said, For me to sit here and say I dont follow politics  you wouldnt believe me, O.K.?On the Friday afternoon before Christmas, just hours before the government shut down over Trumps demands for more funding for a border wall, I called Reid to see how closely he was following this latest brinkmanship. Landra and I have been watching the news; we have it on now, Reid told me. The shutdown, he allowed, was interesting. Reid takes an anthropological interest in the changes that Trump has wrought on his old institution. You cant legislate when you have a chief executive whos weird, for lack of a better description, he told me. He said he could never understand how his former Senate colleague Jeff Sessions allowed himself to be so abused and humiliated by the president. Why in the hell didnt Sessions leave? he said. Same with Kelly, referring to the departing chief of staff, John Kelly. Id say, Go screw yourself. I could not look my children in the eye.I asked him if he could identify at all with Trumps dark worldview. I disagree that Trump is a pessimist, Reid said, as if to allow him that mantle would be paying him an undeserved compliment. I think hes a person who is oblivious to the real world.One of Reids assets as a leader, when he was in office, was his willingness to feed the egos of his colleagues before his own; he was happy to yield credit, attention and TV appearances. Yet when I visited Reid in Nevada, I detected a whiff of, if not neediness per se, maybe a need to remind me that he has not been forgotten. He told me that he received a lovely call that morning from Barbara Boxer, the former Democratic senator from California. He gets calls from his former colleagues all the time, he said, and they tell Reid he is missed. He had a final conversation with John McCain over the summer, just before McCain died, punctuated with I love yous.Reading Reid can be difficult. Is he playing a game or working an angle or even laughing at a private joke he just told himself? When speaking of his final goodbye with McCain, he broke into a strange little grin, his lips pressed upward as if he could have been stifling either amusement or tears. It occurred to me that Reid, typically as self-aware as he is unsentimental, could have been engaged in a gentle playacting of how two old Senate combatants of a fast-vanishing era are supposed to say goodbye to each other for posterity.Reid seemed to recognize my puzzlement and shrugged. As has been written since I left, he told me, I was kind of a strange guy.Mark Leibovich is the chief national correspondent for the magazine.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Shane GoldmacherSenator Kirsten Gillibrand, an outspoken advocate for womens causes and electing more women to office, is herself entering the 2020 race for the White House, becoming the latest candidate to join what is expected to be a crowded Democratic primary to take on President Trump.In an appearance Tuesday on The Late Show With Stephen Colbert, Ms. Gillibrand, Democrat of New York, said she was forming an exploratory committee to raise money and travel the country for her run. She is scheduled to start campaigning within days, with plans to spend the weekend in Iowa.Im going to run for president of the United States because as a young mom I am going to fight for other peoples kids as hard as I would fight for my own, she said.TONIGHT: @SenGillibrand stops by @colbertlateshow to announce that she is forming an exploratory committee to run for President of the United States! #LSSC pic.twitter.com/vPUpF1gs8zMs. Gillibrand, 52, has emerged as one of the most forceful critics of the Trump administration in the last two years. She has voted against nearly every significant nominee Mr. Trump has put forward, and rallied opposition to his congressional agenda. In the last two months, as she publicly considered a campaign, she has spoken repeatedly about the need to restore the moral compass of the nation.But Ms. Gillibrand, a former corporate lawyer, has been criticized by opponents as a politician without a firm ideological bearing of her own, having transformed from a pro-gun, conservative upstate congresswoman with deep ties to Wall Street financiers to a crusading liberal who rails against guns and refuses corporate political action committee money.Ms. Gillibrands 2020 announcement was widely expected after weeks of presidential buildup, in which she secured office space for a headquarters in Troy, N.Y., and expanded her political staff.The first thing I would do is restore whats been lost: the integrity and the compassion of this country, Ms. Gillibrand told Mr. Colbert when he asked about her Day 1 priorities.Ms. Gillibrand is not the first woman or even the first one in the Senate to announce her bid; Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts formed an exploratory committee two weeks ago.Other senators expected to enter the race soon include Cory Booker of New Jersey and Kamala Harris of California, while Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and former Representative Beto ORourke are weighing candidacies.Ms. Gillibrand has registered little support in early presidential polls, but she is still widely seen as a formidable candidate. Fiercely competitive and a prolific fund-raiser  she had more than $10.5 million in the bank as of late 2018  she has invested heavily in recent years to build up a small donor network online, as well.Notably, Ms. Gillibrand pitched bipartisanship in her announcement. I would bring people together to start getting things done, she said. If you want to get health care done, you have to bring Democrats and Republicans to the table on the shared values of this country.But nothing would be accomplished, she said, without taking on the systems of power, including institutional racism and corruption in Washington.Ms. Gillibrand appeared nervous as the interview began, gripping Mr. Colberts hand just before making her announcement. At the end of the segment, Mr. Colbert gave her a gift basket of items to take with her on the trail, including a ticket to Michigan to ensure she campaigns there.The 2018 midterms demonstrated the appetite among Democratic voters to elevate women into power, and Ms. Gillibrand is expected to make her advocacy for womens causes and candidacies a key part of her campaign. For years, she has raised money for women seeking office through her Off the Sidelines PAC, which shares a name with her memoir. That work has helped her develop a national network of female donors for 2020.She has lined up with the left flank of her party on policy positions, embracing economic populism, but she is not expected to run a campaign as explicitly ideological as rivals like Ms. Warren and, if he runs, Mr. Sanders.Instead, Ms. Gillibrand is expected to lean on her ability to connect with audiences on a personal level.Her presidential announcement comes almost a decade to the day she was appointed to represent New York in the United States Senate  in what was then a surprise pick by former Gov. David A. Paterson, who elevated Ms. Gillibrand over some better-known rivals to replace Hillary Clinton when she became secretary of state.At the time of her appointment, Ms. Gillibrand had just won re-election to her second term in the House after seizing her Albany-area seat from a Republican incumbent in 2006. She has moved steadily to the left politically since then, abandoning her former positions on guns and immigration, in particular, as she has become one of the Democratic Partys most reliably liberal voices.In the Senate, she has taken on some big fights, including her successful push to repeal the dont ask, dont tell policy in the military and her continuing battle to remove sexual assault cases in the armed forces from the military chain of command. She has pushed to end the scourge of sexual harassment on college campuses and to strengthen protections for women working on Capitol Hill.In late 2017, she was the first Democratic senator to call for the resignation of Senator Al Franken of Minnesota as he faced multiple accusations of sexual misconduct. Her decision  which was quickly echoed by other senators, both men and women  led to a backlash from some Democratic activists and donors who were angered that Mr. Franken was forced to resign while a president accused of harassment by multiple women remained in office.Ms. Gillibrands stance on Mr. Franken came on the heels of saying that, in retrospect, President Bill Clintons sexual relationship with an intern would have been cause to resign, even though the Clintons had championed her early in her career.The back-to-back episodes cemented her reputation as a woman willing to buck powerful men in her own party.Born in Albany to a political family, Ms. Gillibrand was greatly influenced by her grandmother, Dorothea Noonan, known as Polly, a powerful figure in the political machine of the longtime mayor of Albany, Erastus Corning.Ms. Gillibrand began her career as a Manhattan lawyer in the 1990s, and has said she was inspired to get into politics by listening to Mrs. Clinton, then the first lady.She eventually ran for Congress, in 2006, in what was seen as a long-shot race against an entrenched incumbent, John E. Sweeney. The district was 93 percent white, and Republicans vastly outnumbered Democrats.She easily secured re-election in 2008 in a House race that was the most expensive in the nation that year.While some 2020 candidates are expected to make explicit their appeal in Middle America, Ms. Gillibrand, at least among the Democrats from coastal blue states, can point to her initial representation of a heavily Republican and more rural House district as a sign of her experience, if not electability, with such voters.Last November, she won election to the Senate for the third time after she pledged during the campaigns final weeks that she would serve her full six-year term.Ahead of her impending presidential candidacy, Ms. Gillibrand met last Saturday with a group of two dozen women for a listening session at the home of the author Letty Cottin Pogrebin.Among the pointed questions the senator was asked: How would she become known in the rest of America?Her answer was that she would proceed living room by living room, recalled Gloria Steinem, the feminist icon, who was among the attendees and said she came away impressed by Ms. Gillibrand. Just as she was doing with us.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Mihir Zaveri and Annie CorrealFor eight years, it seemed to Margarita Cruz that the management at the Trump Organizations golf club in Westchester County, N.Y., did not notice  or did not care  that the green card and Social Security card she had used to get hired were fake, purchased in Queens for about $120.Ms. Cruz, a housekeeper, said she cleaned guest rooms, offices and shops at the club. She laundered sheets and pool towels. But that all ended this month, she said.Ms. Cruz and about a dozen other employees  housekeepers, landscapers and a head chef  at the club, Trump National Golf Club, were fired Jan. 18 because they were in the country illegally, according to interviews with Ms. Cruz and the former workers lawyer.The firings were first reported on Saturday by The Washington Post.The New York Times reported in December that undocumented immigrants had been employed at another club owned by the Trump Organization, the Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster, N.J., and that they were kept on the payroll for years even though management there had some knowledge of their fraudulent papers.Several workers deemed ineligible to work in the country had already been fired at the Bedminster club, according to people familiar with the matter.The employment of undocumented workers at Trump Organization properties runs counter to President Trumps anti-immigrant rhetoric, which he has made central to his campaign and his presidency. He is currently in a heated political battle to build a wall along the border with Mexico, which he claims would stop drugs and crime. Evidence does not support Mr. Trumps thesis.There is nothing to indicate that Mr. Trump or Trump Organization executives knew about the workers immigration status at either golf club. But Ms. Cruz, 44, said she believed that management at the Westchester club knew about her immigration status before January.Her papers were requested again two years ago, she said, not just when she was hired. Anibal Romero, who represents Ms. Cruz and 14 other former workers at the golf club, the majority of whom were fired Jan. 18, was stronger in his wording.Im not buying that they didnt know, Mr. Romero said.Neither Ms. Cruz nor the other former workers received benefits like health insurance or a pension, as other golf club employees did, Mr. Romero said. Most of his clients came into the country through Mexico, Mr. Romero said, and were originally from countries such as Mexico, Ecuador and Honduras.This was a two-tiered system, he said. The people who were legal and the people who are undocumented.He said the workers were fired by being individually called into a room by an executive, who read their names off a list.The White House referred questions to the Trump Organization on Saturday. The Trump Organization and the Westchester golf club did not respond to requests for comment.In a statement to The Post, Eric Trump, who manages the Trump Organization with his brother Donald Jr., said: We are making a broad effort to identify any employee who has given false and fraudulent documents to unlawfully gain employment. Where identified, any individual will be terminated immediately.Ms. Cruz entered the United States in 2009 near Piedras Negras, Mexico, on the Texas border, she said, with a 12-year-old daughter and a 9-year-old son. Her parents had paid a coyote $11,000 for the trip.She said that in Mexico she earned about $40 a week working at a restaurant. She started at $11 per hour at the golf club, and then got a raise to $14 per hour. She said she did not have any savings when she was fired because she had been paying back her parents.Mr. Trumps political rhetoric has been surprising, she said, because he would regularly come by the golf club before his election and give the workers $50 tips in cash.He would come over and say hello, ask your name and how long you had worked at the club, Ms. Cruz said. He would ask you how you liked the rug, or a picture on the wall, things like that.She added, If he really did hate Latinos so much, why did he come over to talk to us?She said some of her colleagues had worked at the golf club for 18 years.I couldnt understand why he started talking like that about Latinos now and why he fired us, she said.Mr. Romero said he is seeking federal and state investigations of the golf club to see if it had been exploiting the undocumented workers.Follow Mihir Zaveri on Twitter: @MihirZaveri.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie Astor and Astead W. HerndonThe new year has begun, and so has the nomination process for next years presidential election. But what do candidates actually do at this point, when the Iowa caucuses are still 13 months away?Democrats like Senator Elizabeth Warren, who just entered the race and plans to campaign in Iowa this weekend, will move quickly to try to build grass-roots support and raise money: two prerequisites for any candidates hoping to break out of what is likely to be a congested pack of contenders and position themselves well for big moments like the first Democratic candidates debate this June.[Read about Ms. Warrens entry to the race and Iowa trip.]The Times talked to presidential campaign veterans, operatives and candidate surrogates about what the Democratic contenders will focus on in these early months. Few would offer predictions on which candidates would be successful, but they identified priorities that are critical in order to emerge as the partys standard-bearer in 2020.Like it or not, the first focus of a new presidential campaign tends to be money. So-called exploratory committees, like the one Ms. Warren created Monday, are a vehicle to raise it. Given that more than a dozen Democrats may jump into the 2020 race, candidates who dont establish themselves as potential front-runners in the next few months can get drowned out, and raising a lot of money early is one way to show a candidacy is viable.Successful fund-raising is one of the messages that you want to have available to you as a candidate in Iowa, because its an indicator of the ability to sustain a campaign as long as is necessary, said Jerry Crawford, who has led several Democrats Iowa operations.[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]The exact timing of Ms. Warrens announcement  Dec. 31  is significant. It means that in a few weeks, she will have to report her fund-raising totals for the fourth quarter of 2018, which will reveal how much she received on Day 1 in small-donor contributions  a key benchmark for popularity for Democrats in the nominating race.Like Ms. Warren, candidates often announce their campaigns at the end or the beginning of a quarter, and the choice is strategic: If you announce at the end of a quarter and raise a lot of money very quickly, you can report an impressive total right away and help cement yourself as a serious candidate. If you announce near the beginning of a quarter, you give yourself almost three months to build a respectable total before you have to disclose it.Another benefit of a full calendar year of campaigning is that it provides candidates with ample opportunity to test, refine or popularize new messages. Some Democrats already have signature taglines: Ms. Warrens Nevertheless, we persist, or the Ohio Senator Sherrod Browns the dignity of work. Other candidates will be less decided and may try different messages to see what works.Laura Belin, a close Iowa caucus observer and author on the Bleeding Heartland blog, said it was important for candidates to make residents feel as if they are being courted and their concerns are being heard. This could mean tailoring a national message for a local audience, or being responsive to a particular moment that resonates with audiences.With a field like this, I think there will be a lot of late deciders, Ms. Belin said. You cant predict other events: Some people might stumble along the way. But its important to really find your message and appeal to people.We joke about how Iowa Democrats are like, I cant decide because Ive only met this candidate twice, but theres some truth to that and I feel like that myself. I think highly of a lot of people who are going to run, she added.Repeated trips to Iowa can allow long-shot candidates to become better known among voters there, but top-tier candidates can also benefit from a sharpened message. Ms. Warren, for example, did not travel to Iowa before making her campaign announcement and will have to introduce herself anew to voters in Americas heartland.She has a reputation of having a tremendous sense of humor, for example, but I dont think that people in Iowa have seen that, and they need to, Mr. Crawford said. She needs to develop a sense of what Iowa is, what the people care about and are concerned about. I think she could do herself well to do some of those quieter conversations, sit-downs with Iowans on her first couple of trips here, rather than big rallies.It takes a lot of people to get to the White House, and there are only so many who have experience running successful presidential campaigns. Nobody wants to start a campaign only to find that the best operatives are already committed to rival candidates.Especially in Iowa, where the caucuses demand intense on-the-ground mobilization, campaigns need a slew of organizers. John Delaney, a departing congressman from Maryland who has been running for the Democratic nomination since 2017, has about 20 paid staff members in Iowa and said he expected that to increase to 25, spread across eight field offices, by the end of January. He also has three staff members in New Hampshire and 15 to 20 at his new campaign headquarters in Maryland.Ms. Warren will undoubtedly be spending a lot of her time in the coming weeks building a staff at least that extensive, as will any other candidate who decides to enter the race early.Candidates must also use the coming year to introduce and differentiate themselves on policy grounds, experts said. Retail politics and interpersonal relationships can generate buzz, but in a crowded field, substance will count for just as much as style. Some candidates have already released baseline plans around issues such as tax policy or housing affordability, but 2019 is a time for details.In a crowded field, what will be important is the clarity of your vision and your pathway that you show people, Mr. Delaney said in an interview.  I think what will differentiate the candidates is the person who can really convince people that they should have faith that my leadership can actually make this happen.On a primary debate stage and in rooms with voters, a policy vision gives candidates an air of seriousness. Politically, it can also help a candidate shore up support among voters in more skeptical demographic groups. Ms. Warren, for example, drew praise for her focus on housing affordability, which she targeted at black voters, a key constituency in the Democratic primary. Other Democrats said they were looking to candidates like Senator Kamala Harris of California or Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey, to see if their policies will tap into more populist, anti-Wall Street themes.Beyond Trump, every Democratic candidate will need to prove that they have a policy vision to address the deep inequalities of power and opportunity in America, said Heather McGhee, the former president of Demos, the progressive political group.She said Ms. Warren had, to this point, led the pack on progressive policy.Elizabeth Warren is the Democrat who has released the most comprehensive ideas about restructuring the corporate sector to reduce inequality, she said.Every candidate has some sort of weakness or liability he or she needs to address, and those who enter the race early, like Ms. Warren, will want to try to get out ahead of it.Ms. Warrens biggest liability, at this point, may be the DNA test she took in an effort to prove her claims of Native American ancestry. Her decision to release the test results angered many Native Americans, as well as progressive Democrats in her base, and some of her own advisers believe she needs a plan to repair the damage. So far, she has refused to apologize publicly, and she shrugged off a reporters question this week about the DNA test by saying she had put it all out there and people could see the information for themselves.Mr. Crawford of Iowa said, If theyve got challenging issues, like that one is for Senator Warren, I think first of all they need to be prepared to discuss it.They need to be very straightforward about it, he added.Virtually all of the expected Democratic candidates have some issue, small or large, that they will have to confront if they run. For Joseph R. Biden Jr., it could be his actions during the Anita Hill hearings; for Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, her role in pushing Al Franken to resign from the Senate in response to sexual misconduct allegations; for Mr. Booker, his ties to Wall Street; for Ms. Harris, elements of her prosecutorial record in California.The coming weeks, before the campaign really gets underway, will be a good time to identify and even address those potential liabilities.Shane Goldmacher contributed reporting.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byMaggie Haberman, Michael Schmidt, Mark Mazzetti and more of our journalists explained what the submission of the full report means and what may come next.By The New York TimesThe special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, and his team have finished their long-anticipated report after investigating possible Russian interference in the 2016 election and obstruction of justice by President Trump and his associates. [Read about the special counsels full report that was delivered to the attorney general on Friday. ]We asked readers what they wanted to know about the report and what may come next. We received more than 600 questions, and our journalists in Washington responded to a selection.It all depends on Attorney General William Barr. He is now reading the report to see whether Mr. Mueller alleges that President Trump broke the law and to determine how much of the investigators findings should be made public. Mr. Barr told Congress earlier this year that he wants to release as much as he can. On Friday, he told Congress he could provide lawmakers with an update on Mr. Muellers findings as soon as this weekend. But he could be limited in what he can tell Congress, as the special counsels report may contain classified information and evidence obtained by a grand jury. Michael S. SchmidtMr. Barr has broad discretion, but it is not absolute. He may not lawfully be able to share information that is subject to grand jury secrecy rules absent a courts permission, for example. He is also likely to acquiesce to any decision by President Trump to assert executive privilege to withhold certain materials, like communications with the president or agency deliberations. During his confirmation hearing, Mr. Barr said he intended to be as transparent as possible, consistent with the Justice Departments practices and policies. That could mean withholding information about open investigations or about people Mr. Mueller decided not to charge with a crime. There is also a wild card: Mr. Barr has long adhered to a sweeping view of executive power under which the president, as head of the executive branch, has a constitutional right to control the exercise of discretionary policymaking by a subordinate such as himself. Charlie SavageMr. Barr could decline to release any information that is classified or subject to grand jury rules. He could also keep any information from the public that is relevant to ongoing investigations. There could also be a looming battle over any information the White House claims is subject to executive privilege, which protects confidential discussions between the president and his advisers. Mark MazzettiThe investigation by the special counsels office is over now that Mr. Mueller has provided his final report to the attorney general. So his team is not expected to seek additional charges. Other federal prosecutors who received information related to Mr. Muellers investigation could move forward and seek indictments. For instance, federal prosecutors in New York continue to investigate possible crimes that Mr. Mueller referred to them related to campaign finance violations that ensnared Michael D. Cohen, Mr. Trumps former personal lawyer. Prosecutors are also investigating a top fund-raiser to Mr. Trump and a former lawyer in the Obama administration. Mr. Mueller had referred both cases to other prosecutors. Adam GoldmanNothing in the Constitution or federal statutes says that sitting presidents are immune from prosecution, and no court has ruled that they have any such shield. But the Justice Departments Office of Legal Counsel  under the Nixon administration, and again under the Clinton administration  has opined that structural principles in the Constitution implicitly bar indicting a president. Essentially, the idea is that the stigma of being indicted and the burden of a trial would unduly interfere with a presidents ability to oversee the executive branch and carry out his constitutional duties, so any indictment would have to wait until he is no longer president  either through impeachment and removal, or because his term is up. This interpretation of the Constitution is disputed, but it is nevertheless binding on Justice Department prosecutors, including Mr. Mueller. Charlie SavageThere have already been referrals that Mr. Mueller has made to federal prosecutors when he has found evidence of a possible crime that he considered outside his purview. The prosecution of Mr. Cohen began as a referral by Mr. Mueller to prosecutors in the Southern District of New York. House Democrats are almost certain to seek the evidence that Mr. Mueller received during the course of his investigation. A number of House committee chairmen are planning to ask executive branch agencies to preserve documents that they provided to the special counsel. Maggie HabermanWe dont know whats in the report. I dont want to speculate on what the worst-case scenario might be. But we do know that the special counsel had been investigating whether the president obstructed justice when he fired James B. Comey, then the F.B.I. director, in May 2017. Mr. Mueller had also been examining Mr. Trumps ties to Russia and whether anybody associated with his campaign conspired with the Russians during the 2016 election. Mr. Muellers investigation led to charges against more than 30 people, but none of them tied the president to a Russian conspiracy. Adam GoldmanWe really dont know the answer, but Mr. Trumps lawyers consider it one of their greatest accomplishments that he never sat for an interview. In early 2018, Mr. Mueller threatened to subpoena the president, setting off months of negotiations between the special counsels office and Mr. Trumps lawyers. Ultimately, in November, Mr. Trump answered several questions in writing about what occurred during the campaign. But he refused to answer questions about his time in office  including whether he tried to obstruct justice. This meant that Mr. Muellers prosecutors were only left with the statements of other witnesses when they sought to determine why Mr. Trump may have interfered with the investigation. Mr. Trumps lawyers believed heading off an interview was such a great success because if he had testified, he would have been at risk of making an inaccurate statement and increasing his criminal exposure. Michael S. SchmidtGood question, we dont know. Disney World?We do know that some members of his team intend to return to their jobs at law firms in New York and Washington, and others to return to the Justice Department. It has been reported that Andrew Weissmann, one of the senior members of the team, intends to teach at New York University. As for Mr. Mueller, maybe hell also go back to working at a law firm or retire. Its certainly possible that one or more of the House committees investigating various aspects of the case and Mr. Trump will want to call him to testify, though Mr. Barr, the attorney general, will have a say in whether he can do so. Mark MazzettiIn his letter to Congress on Friday, Mr. Barr said he may be in a position to advise you of the Special Counsels principal conclusions as soon as this weekend. But we dont know what is in the underlying report. Here are some categories of elements that may raise legal or policy concerns about disclosure to Congress or the public:1. Any highly classified information, such as something that could help the Russian government identify and take out an intelligence source;2. Anything that remains relevant to an ongoing investigation, such as those that Mr. Mueller spun off to regular prosecutors or the ongoing counterintelligence investigation into Russia;3. Testimony and files that were presented to the grand jury and so are subject to a federal rule of criminal procedure that generally forbids disclosure of such material absent a court order;4. Negative information about people whom prosecutors scrutinized but decided not to charge with a crime, which the Justice Department normally does not make public (this is why Mr. Comeys news conference about Hillary Clintons email server was so broadly condemned by other law enforcement officials);5. Internal executive branch information, like confidential communications with the president or agency deliberations, that could be subject to a claim of executive privilege. Charlie SavageIn short, yes. Congress can subpoena just about anything it wants, but that does not mean lawmakers will do so or that they will be successful in getting what they want. Democrats have made abundantly clear that they will be satisfied with nothing less than Mr. Muellers full report and access to his underlying evidence. They will start by asking for the Justice Department to share all that information voluntarily. If the department resists, a committee could issue a subpoena to try to compel it to produce the relevant documents. What comes next is likely complicated. There are several reasons the Justice Department might be unwilling to just hand over classified or grand jury information, even under subpoena. In that case, Congress could sue to try to enforce its demand. Then it would be up to the courts to decide who gets to see what. Nicholas FandosThe White House counsels office anticipates being able to review the report to raise possible objections related to executive privilege. We have no sense right now how long that will take, but any effort by the White House to bar the release of elements of the report is sure to set off a political and legal battle.Mr. Barr said on Friday that he anticipates being able to brief Congress within a few days about the special counsels principal conclusions. But it is not clear how much of the reports details and underlying documentation he will ultimately provide to Congress and, by extension, the public. Mr. Barr appeared to be lowering expectations during his Senate confirmation hearings when he said he wanted to be as transparent as possible but might provide simply a summary to Congress. Maggie HabermanWe have no information that the full report will be made available to state or federal prosecutors. But during the course of his investigation, Mr. Mueller has referred a number of cases to other federal prosecutors in New York and Washington. Adam GoldmanWe still dont know whats in the report. In terms of electoral politics, youre right  it might not fundamentally change the partisan divide over Mr. Trump. His supporters have shown a willingness to stay with him in the face of allegations and behavior that might have doomed a more traditional politician.But you could argue that this report has an importance that goes well beyond partisan politics, reflecting an investigation that yielded substantial results  not least in establishing the degree of Russian interference in the 2016 election. Dont forget that half a dozen Trump aides have been indicted or convicted. Regardless of Mr. Muellers conclusions, Democrats in the House are pressing ahead on issues such as whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice after becoming president. The Democrats say Mr. Barr needs to make as much of Mr. Muellers findings public as soon as possible because the American people deserve an accounting of what went on. Michael S. SchmidtIf anyone is to be indicted down the road, it wont be by Mr. Mueller. Its now clear that his team wont try to charge anyone else, because his work is done. To be sure, there are now numerous, ongoing investigations by other federal prosecutors that could mean legal peril for Mr. Trumps advisers or family members. Remember that in the investigation being run by prosecutors in the Southern District of New York, Mr. Cohen implicated the president in a scheme to pay off two women before the 2016 election. But given Justice Department rules, there isnt any expectation that Mr. Trump would be in legal jeopardy as long as hes in the White House. Mark MazzettiAs of Sept. 30, 2018, the special counsels investigation had cost more than $25 million. More than $12 million of that was direct spending by Mr. Muellers team. That amount will increase once the special counsels office submits its final list of expenses. Those costs included the expenses of Justice Department personnel and other resources that supported the special counsel office. The special counsel says the Justice Department would have incurred those expenses for the investigations irrespective of the existence of the (special counsel office). The special counsel also seized more millions in property and fines. Adam GoldmanWe wish we knew. Keep in mind there are likely to be two reports: one prepared by Mr. Mueller for the Justice Department and another prepared by Mr. Barr to be shared with Congress and the public. Both reports could be as short as a few pages, or considerably longer. And Mr. Barr could well choose to give the public a more concise report than Mr. Mueller gave him. That said, a senior Justice Department official told reporters on Friday that the report delivered by Mr. Mueller had been comprehensive. Nicholas FandosCorrection: March 26, 2019An earlier version of this article misstated Robert S. Mueller IIIs work status before he became the special counsel. Mr. Mueller was a partner at a law firm; he was not retired.Correction: March 22, 2019An earlier version of this article misspelled the surname of a senior member of Mr. Muellers team. He is Andrew Weissmann, not Weissman.A note to readers who are not subscribers: This article from the Reader Center does not count toward your monthly free article limit.Follow the @ReaderCenter on Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe presidents announcement on the Golan Heights will finally free us from the land for peace formula that none of us believe in anyway. By Shmuel RosnerContributing Opinion WriterTEL AVIV  On Thursday evening here in Israel, after President Trump announced that it is time for the United States to fully recognize Israels sovereignty over the Golan Heights and our prime minister, Benjamin Netanyahu, thanked the president for his historic decision, I wanted to talk to someone I trusted on the issue, someone with perspective. So I contacted Zvi Hauser.Mr. Hauser was a cabinet secretary under Mr. Netanyahu and is running for the Knesset on behalf of the Kahol Lavan Party, which wants to unseat the prime minister in the April 9 general election. He is also a longtime proponent of Americas recognition of Israels sovereignty over the Golan Heights.With less than three weeks until Election Day, Mr. Hauser keeps his priorities straight. He knows that Mr. Netanyahu will get credit from the public for the United States recognition of Israels control of the Golan  something many Israelis have wanted for a long time. He understands that the president intervened to boost Mr. Netanyahus chances in a tight race. Still, Mr. Hauser was happy. He called the move a turning point in the annals of the Middle East and said he wanted to thank President Trump and Prime Minister Netanyahu.Mr. Hauser was not alone among Mr. Netanyahus rivals in praising Mr. Trumps decision. Across the Israeli political spectrum (with some obvious exceptions), politicians are supportive of America recognizing Israels control of the Golan Heights.Indeed, Mr. Trumps statement on Thursday was a major development. It is the final nail in the coffin of the 1967 line  the armistice line that separated Israel from its neighbors before the Six Days War. More than 50 years since this line was crossed by the Israeli military, we can finally kiss it goodbye.The part of the Golan Heights controlled by Israel is a 500-square-mile territory wedged between northeast Israel and southwest Syria. Syria ruled this area until 1967. Then Israel occupied it. Since then, there have been about 50 years of negotiations, with Syria demanding the territory back and Israel demanding a peace agreement.Many Israelis, though, knew that it never should  or would  be returned to Syria. The area was too important strategically and historically. In 1981, the Knesset passed a law essentially annexing the territory. And yet, negotiations continued, with successive prime ministers making overtures to the Syrians, until the Syrian civil war  and the takeover of much of Syria by Iran and its proxies  put an end to the charade.Israel had no choice but to give up on the idea of withdrawing from the Golan Heights. But this reality involves a complete overhaul of the way the international community thinks not just about the Golan Heights but also about all the lands Israel occupied in 1967. The land for peace formulation for the past five decades has been a basis of all peace processes between Israel and Egypt, Syria and the Palestinians. Mr. Trump seems to have accepted the position of Israels government and given up on the idea that Israel has to withdraw to a decades-old line to get peace.Withdrawal worked for Israel once, in 1979, when it signed a peace agreement with Egypt and left the Sinai Peninsula, which was also occupied in 1967. But that set a problematic precedent. President Anwar Sadat of Egypt insisted that Israel hand back the entire peninsula to the last inch. Israel decided that the reward was worth the price, as a major Arab country agreed to break with other Arab states and accept Israels legitimacy. But there was a hidden, unanticipated cost: Israels adversaries, in future negotiations, would demand the same kind of compensation. The 1967 line  what Israel controlled before the war  became the starting point for all Arab countries, including Syria. It became a sacred formula, worshiped by the international community.What Mr. Trump is doing extends far beyond the ability of Israel to control the Golan Heights, to settle it and invest in it. The American president is setting the clock back to before the peace deal with Egypt, to a time when Israel could argue that the reward for peace is peace  not land.Syria, of course, is unlikely to accept this. At least not in the short term. But maybe someday, a Syrian leader will come along who doesnt entertain the thought that Israel might agree to return to the pre-1967 line and who will accept a different formula for achieving peace.In the meantime, the Golan Heights news is another clarifying moment in Israels election. Yes, there is a fierce fight between Mr. Netanyahu and his opponents. Yes, the stakes seem at times high. But Israelis agree on much more than many outside observers imagine. And one of the things they largely agree on is that the 1967 line is no longer relevant.Mr. Hauser started fighting for recognition of Israels sovereignty in the territory when he was an ally of Mr. Netanyahu. Now he is fighting for the same thing as the prime ministers opponent. There is nothing unnatural or strange about this. On days like these, he told me, politics is dwarfed amid the call of history.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Shmuel Rosner is the political editor at The Jewish Journal, a senior fellow at the Jewish People Policy Institute and a contributing opinion writer.  @rosnersdomain Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Edward WongWASHINGTON  The Trump administration is pressuring Iraq to stop buying energy from its neighbor and sole foreign supplier, Iran, in what has become a major point of conflict between Washington and Baghdad.Iraqi leaders, fearing that a further shortfall in power would lead to mass protests and political instability in their electricity-starved country, are pushing back on the demand, which is rooted in President Trumps sanctions against Iran.The dispute has frayed American diplomacy with Baghdad as Iraq tries to steady itself after the United States military withdrawal in 2011 and the campaign against the Islamic State.Iraqs defiance further jeopardizes Mr. Trumps goal of getting all nations to comply with sanctions after withdrawing from the deal to limit Tehrans nuclear program last year. Already, European nations have set up a legal financial mechanism to do business with Iran, and China and India are resisting American efforts at prodding them to cut off oil purchases.Tensions rose after Mr. Trump said on Feb. 3 that he planned to have American troops who have returned to Iraq watch Iran, despite Baghdads need to maintain cordial ties with its fellow Shiite neighbor. Mr. Trumps comments added momentum to proposed legislation in Iraq that would limit the movement and activities of American troops.The people of Iraq have suffered from the blockade and are aware of the harm done to the people by their actions, Prime Minister Adel Abdul Mahdi of Iraq said last week after a meeting with the governor of Irans central bank, Abdolnaser Hemmati. He was referring to 13 years of crippling sanctions imposed on Iraq by the United States when Saddam Hussein was in power.Iraq will not be part of the sanctions regime against Iran and any other people, Mr. Abdul Mahdi said.Mr. Hemmati said he hoped Iraq and Iran would cooperate more in banking, which could also weaken American sanctions.American officials are seeking to cut off Iraqi purchases of natural gas and electricity, even though the country relies on those for a good portion of its energy needs.Iraqs energy production and grid capabilities have lagged since the American-led invasion of 2003, and blackouts in cities are common, even with the current purchases. The energy shortfall is especially acute in the sweltering summers, which has led to large protests that become national crises.Iranian natural gas is the single most critical energy import in Iraq, but American officials say purchases must end now because gas falls under the American sanctions.And the Trump administration has told Iraqs leaders that they have until late March to end electricity purchases, amounting to about 1.2 gigawatts. Officials in Baghdad say there is no easy substitute for either one because it would take three years or more to adequately build up Iraqs energy infrastructure.The Trump administrations push on Iraq is part of its strategy of using sanctions to weaken Irans economy and prompt political or policy change. Administration officials aim to coerce Iranian leaders to fully dismantle their nuclear and ballistic missile programs and curb their support for Shiite Arab militias in the Middle East.American officials say they want to get Iranian oil exports to zero, but they gave leeway to some countries when imposing sanctions in November. The State Department and Treasury granted waivers to eight countries, including China and India, Irans two biggest customers, to allow continued purchases for 180 days.Iraq was given a 45-day waiver on electricity, which was extended by 90 days in December. On Jan. 9, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo spoke to Iraqs two top leaders in Baghdad about energy independence, a State Department spokesman said.Iraqi officials said the American demand acknowledges neither Iraqs energy needs nor the complex relations between Baghdad and Tehran.Haider al-Abadi, the former prime minister, said in an interview that Iraq was in a precarious situation with the United States because we cannot afford to make them angry. But, he said, the Americans have failed to look at the geopolitics of Iraq.We happen to be neighbors of Iran; the U.S. is not, Mr. al-Abadi said. We happen to have the longest border with Iran; the U.S. does not. And we dont have that powerful an economy.The defiance by Iraqi leaders underscores the lack of support among many nations for the sanctions and the American goal of crippling Irans government. Analysts say they do not expect China and India to stop their purchases of Iranian oil even after the 180-day waivers expire. On Jan. 31, Britain, France and Germany announced a mechanism to allow countries to do business with Iran in a way that does not violate sanctions.This week, diplomats from dozens of countries will meet in Warsaw for what American officials originally billed as a discussion of  the Iran sanctions and containment strategy. But Western European nations balked at the focus on Iran and threatened to send lower-level officials, forcing the State Department to broaden the theme to addressing instability in the Middle East.Inside Iran, the sanctions have led to a scarcity of medicine, adding to global criticism of the American policy.Last month, top American intelligence officials contradicted Mr. Trump by saying Iran was not currently taking steps to make a nuclear bomb. Those officials and the International Atomic Energy Agency say Iran still appears to be complying with the nuclear deal from which Mr. Trump withdrew the United States in May.Iraq presents a special dilemma for the United States. The toppling of Hussein in 2003 allowed Iran to become the dominant foreign power in Iraq. That has continued throughout the Iraqi governments campaign against the Islamic State, with Iran supporting Shiite Arab militias against the Sunni extremist group and sending top commanders into battle, including Maj. Gen. Qassim Suleimani, a nemesis of the Americans.Iraqi officials want to someday produce all their energy. But until the proper infrastructure is built, they see no alternative to buying from Iran, said Meghan OSullivan, an energy scholar and Harvard Kennedy School professor who was a top National Security Council official on Iraq under President George W. Bush.The administrations policy is putting Iraq in a tough position, said Ms. OSullivan, who has spoken with Iraqi and American officials about the American demands. The big transition that the Trump administration wants Iraq to make in stepping away from Iran will take a long time.It makes sense for Iraq to supply all of its own energy and to export products, she added. Its not a crazy idea from the Trump administration. But the sanctions are adding urgency to the situation and political complications.Iraqi officials have also expressed concern over demands from the Trump administration to sign deals with American companies to build up energy infrastructure.Last October, the Trump administration pushed Iraqi officials to sign agreements with General Electric for multibillion-dollar power generation deals, after Siemens A.G., a German company, had been on the verge of landing a $15 billion deal with Baghdad. Iraqi officials ended up signing nonbinding agreements with both companies.Senior American officials had warned Mr. al-Abadi, then the prime minister, that signing the deal with Siemens would put Iraqs relations with the United States at risk, Bloomberg News reported.Iraqs power sector suffers from many problems, including a poor grid and lack of fuel to be converted to electricity.In 2017, Iraq signed a deal with Iran to import up to one billion cubic feet of natural gas daily, which would cost $2.8 billion annually at crude oil prices of $70 per barrel. The actual imports have been half that amount. The fuel accounts for 10 to 15 percent of Iraqs electricity generation, according to the World Bank.Even with that, Iraq has a shortfall of three gigawatts of power.Last May, around the time Mr. Trump announced the withdrawal from the Iran nuclear deal, Iraqi officials stopped paying Iran for natural gas and electricity. That was in part because they feared the United States was about to impose sanctions, and their lawyers wanted to look at Iraqs exposure, said a State Department official, who discussed details of the sensitive diplomatic issue on condition of anonymity.Last July and August, having not been paid, Iran stopped electricity exports to Iraq. That contributed to widespread blackouts in the southern city Basra, already common during the summer, and helped ignite protests. Iran restarted exports on Aug. 20, but the protests continued, and some residents burned the Iranian Consulate in September.Iran has since continued its exports of natural gas and electricity to Iraq and expects to be paid. Officials from both countries are negotiating how to make payments, given the American sanctions. The Trade Bank of Iraq could have sanctions placed on it by the United States if it buys natural gas or, under the temporary electricity waiver, pays for electricity in United States dollars, the State Department official said.Iraqi officials met with Treasury Department officials in Washington twice in late 2018 to discuss how to legally make payments. A critical period will come this summer, when electricity demand will surge again. If Iran cuts supplies because of nonpayment, more protests could occur, destabilizing the country.For a long-term solution, the Trump administration is urging Iraqi officials to connect their grid to Saudi Arabia, Jordan or Kuwait.They are also pushing Baghdad to sign contracts with foreign companies for natural-gas capture, processing and transport to use gas that is lost during crude oil production. Iraq has 1.7 billion cubic feet of gas flaring per day across 30 fields. The World Bank has worked with the Oil Ministry for two years to improve legal and regulatory foundations for gas contracts.But that is not a short-term fix for energy shortfalls, and Iraq has been slow in signing contracts. Last year, Iraq signed a single natural-gas processing contract, with Baker Hughes and General Electric. The product would equal only a fraction of the imports from Iran, and it would take at least two years to come online.Alissa J. Rubin contributed reporting from Baghdad.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byletterA former head of Export-Import Bank of the United States writes that the agency is being blocked from doing its job by Senate Republicans.To the Editor:Re Chinas Edge Over U.S. Contractors in Africa: Truckloads of Loans (front page, Jan. 13):Whats missing? The Export-Import Bank of the United States. Ex-Im, as it is known, founded in 1934, is the federal agency empowered to support United States exporters who face foreign competition backed by their own governments.The Republican-controlled Senate, and in particular Senators Pat Toomey and Richard Shelby, have blocked confirmation votes on Trump administration nominees for chairman, board and inspector general. Without those confirmations, the agency lacks a quorum to support financing for United States exports and jobs.We have a remedy; the Senate needs to vote to confirm the board.Fred P. HochbergWashingtonThe writer was chairman of the Export-Import Bank of the United States, 2009-17.Advertisement"
Paul Manaforts Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dads Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: Coal Mining Isnt Coming BackHouse Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab SpringCan The President Be Impeached? We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Mark LandlerWASHINGTON  President Trump demanded on Tuesday that a freshman lawmaker from Minnesota resign after she posted tweets deemed anti-Semitic even by fellow Democrats, but those tweets echoed some of the same insinuations about Jews and money that he has trafficked in for years, as a candidate and president.Mr. Trump rejected the apology of Representative Ilhan Omar, one of the first two Muslim women elected to Congress, saying, it was lame, and she didnt mean a word of it. Ms. Omar, he said, should leave the House or, at a minimum, give up her seat on a coveted committee.Anti-Semitism has no place in the United States Congress, Mr. Trump told reporters during a cabinet meeting. Congressman Omar is terrible, what she said. And I think she should either resign from Congress or she should certainly resign from the House Foreign Affairs Committee.Ms. Omar issued her mea culpa after a bipartisan storm of protest over the tweets, in which she said that the United States support for Israel was paid for with money from a pro-Israel lobbying group. Its all about the Benjamins baby, she wrote on Twitter, referring to $100 bills.Mr. Trump was the latest in a parade of Republicans and Democrats to condemn Ms. Omar. But the president himself has perpetuated stereotypes of Jews using money to buy political influence or of acting as globalists, pulling the levers of power for their own enrichment.In 2015, Mr. Trump told members of the Republican Jewish Coalition: Youre not going to support me because I dont want your money. You want to control your politicians, thats fine. He added with admiration that it was a roomful of negotiators, leading some to object afterward that he was engaging in Jewish stereotypes.During the 2016 campaign, Mr. Trumps final television commercial featured grainy images of George Soros, the Hungarian-born financier who has become a potent symbol for anti-Semites; Janet L. Yellen, then the chairwoman of the Federal Reserve; and Lloyd C. Blankfein, then the chairman of Goldman Sachs  all of them Jewish  as Mr. Trump warned darkly about the global special interests. Shadowy figures, he said, partner with these people who dont have your good in mind.As president, Mr. Trump fanned the anti-Semitic canard that Mr. Soros financed caravans of immigrants heading from Central America to the southwestern border. I wouldnt be surprised, he said when a reporter asked him about it. A lot of people say yes.He famously said there had been good people on both sides of a deadly white supremacist march in Charlottesville, Va., which featured anti-Semites and racists chanting, Jews will not replace us.In July 2016, Mr. Trump drew fierce criticism when his campaign released an ad about Hillary Clinton, the Democratic candidate, which depicted her superimposed on piles of cash, with a six-point Star of David and the phrase Most Corrupt Candidate Ever!Then, as in other cases, Mr. Trump dismissed charges of anti-Semitism as ridiculous. He points out that his daughter Ivanka converted to Judaism after marrying an orthodox Jew, Jared Kushner. In 2016, Mr. Trump told a meeting of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, or Aipac, that Ms. Trump was about to have a beautiful Jewish baby.Aipac is the pro-Israel lobbying group that Ms. Omar cited in her tweet when a reporter asked her who was funneling money to American politicians to secure their support for Israel.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Sarah MervoshDuke University has apologized after a professor cautioned international students against speaking Chinese on campus and urged them to speak English instead.The professor, Megan Neely, issued the caution in an email on Friday. Professor Neely has since asked to step down from her role as director of graduate studies in the medical schools biostatistics masters program, the dean of Dukes medical school, Dr. Mary E. Klotman, said in a letter to students on Saturday.Professor Neely did not respond to email requests for comment on Sunday. A university spokesman confirmed that she remained on the faculty as an assistant professor of biostatistics and bioinformatics.Professor Neely said in the email that two faculty members had come to her office complaining about students speaking Chinese very loudly in the student lounge and study areas. The faculty members wanted to identify the students and write down their names, she said, in case the students sought to work with them in the future.They were disappointed that these students were not taking the opportunity to improve their English and were being so impolite as to have a conversation that not everyone on the floor could understand, Professor Neely wrote in the email. To international students, PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE keep these unintended consequences in mind when you choose to speak Chinese in the building.She added that she had the utmost respect for international students. That being said, she wrote, I encourage you to commit to using English 100% of the time in a professional setting.The university confirmed the authenticity of the email, which was widely shared on social media.In February 2018, Professor Neely sent a similar email, which a university spokesman also verified. In that email, she acknowledged that living and studying in a foreign country was a tremendous undertaking, but relayed that faculty members were concerned about students speaking foreign languages in the departments break rooms.Speaking in your native language in the department may give faculty the impression that you are not trying to improve your English skills and that you are not taking this opportunity seriously, she wrote. As a result, they may be more hesitant to hire or work with international students because communication is such an important part of what we do.In her letter, Dr. Klotman, the dean, apologized to students and said she had asked the universitys  Office for Institutional Equity to conduct a thorough review.I understand that many of you felt hurt and angered by this message, Dr. Klotman said. To be clear: There is absolutely no restriction or limitation on the language you use to converse and communicate with each other. Your career opportunities and recommendations will not in any way be influenced by the language you use outside the classroom.Professor Neelys emails drew criticism and reflected broader tensions about the way Asian and Asian-American students are viewed in academia. In 2011, a U.C.L.A. student ranted on YouTube about the hordes of Asian people at the university and complained about their cellphone use at the library. International Chinese students also face unique challenges, including suspicions that they may be spying for their home country.Ken Lee, chief executive of OCA-Asian Pacific American Advocates, said he was disappointed by what he described as an ignorance and hateful bias against students.Forcing students to repress their heritage language further perpetuates a wrongful culture of fear toward Asian and Asian-American students, Mr. Lee said in a statement on Sunday.About 36 of the 54 students in Dukes master of biostatistics program are Chinese, according to the university. About 10 of the 50 faculty members in that program are Chinese, the university said.More than one million foreign students study in the United States each year, with roughly one-third coming from China. But universities have seen a decline in international student enrollment.International enrollment began to flatten in 2016, partly because of changing conditions abroad, but also, college administrators said, because President Trumps rhetoric and more restrictive views on immigration have made the United States even less attractive to international students.In a letter dated Saturday, a group of international students at Duke petitioned the university to investigate what happened leading up to Professor Neelys email, including the actions of the other faculty members.The group said in a statement on Sunday that the emails showed an appalling lack of knowledge and understanding about the Chinese culture and community.We wrote the petition to combat the normalization of xenophobia and discrimination against Chinese students at Duke, the students said.Yung-Hwa Anna Chow, who advises students in Washington State Universitys college of arts and sciences, said international students must already have English proficiency to study in the United States. While students may need to speak English in classrooms and research labs, they should be able to choose which language to speak in social settings, she said.To attack these students and say they have to speak English because its good for them and that they need to practice more, it speaks to these professors privilege and entitlement, she said.Ms. Chow, who was raised in Taiwan and began learning English at 12 when she moved to the United States, said speaking a native language allows people to connect with one another, establish a feeling of home and combat homesickness.Thats a really important piece for these students, she said. If you were traveling to China and you didnt speak Chinese, would you want to be speaking Chinese all the time or would you feel more comfortable speaking English with your friends?Mihir Zaveri contributed reporting.Follow Sarah Mervosh on Twitter: @smervoshOpinionHelen GaoAdvertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byArticle of the DayBy Shannon DoyneBefore reading the article: Watch the video Trump Says He Didnt Need to Declare an Emergency (above). How does President Trump characterize other emergency declarations by previous presidents? How does he compare and contrast those instances with his declaration on Feb. 15 regarding the wall he wants built on the United States border with Mexico?What reasons does Mr. Trump give for declaring this emergency? What steps does he say will be taken so that the cost of the wall will be funded? Why does he bring up the 2020 presidential election?In Mr. Trumps remarks, he predicts that the process for gaining the funding for the wall will be similar to what happened in June 2018 when the Supreme Court upheld his executive order to ban travel from several predominantly Muslim countries.Do you think his prediction will be correct? Why or why not?Now, read the article, Trump Declares a National Emergency, and Provokes a Constitutional Clash, and answer the following questions: 1. Why did President Trump opt to bypass Congress in declaring the emergency?2. How did the House Judiciary Committee respond? What about House Democrats? If both houses of Congress vote in favor of blocking the emergency claim, what could President Trump then do?3. How much money is Mr. Trump looking to secure for the wall? From what budgets might this money come?4. A related interactive states, President Trumps plan to divert military construction money to fund a border wall is an unusual use of emergency powers. How does the interactive give evidence to this claim? What category do most of the previous declarations of emergency have? When was the last time a president declared military action?5. What did the spending package passed on Feb. 14 by Congress include funding for? What funding requested by the president did it not include? Why did Mr. Trump sign the package into law even though it did not include what he wanted? What did he want to avoid happening again?Finally, tell us more about what you think:In the related article, In Wielding Emergency Powers, Trump Paves a Dangerous Path Forward, Carl Hulse writes:Many in both parties now say that the presidential decision to act unilaterally and fund construction for a border wall via an emergency declaration would establish a dangerous new model, encouraging presidents thwarted by Congress to simply cite such a crisis to spend dollars however and wherever they pleased.We have a crisis at our southern border, but no crisis justifies violating the Constitution, said Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida.Accepting the declaration would represent another weakening of the authority of Congress in a steady ceding of power to the executive branch  a trend that Republicans have said they want to reverse and that they railed against when Mr. Obama used executive orders to act on issues such as immigration and health care.As Ive said many times, I have concerns about the precedent that could be set with the use of emergency action to re-appropriate funds, said Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the senior Republican in the Senate.Do you think President Trumps emergency declaration designed to secure funding for a wall at the southern border of the United States sets a dangerous precedent in regard to the balance of power that exists between the branches of the federal government? Or do you think his use of emergency powers is justified? Explain.Related: Our lesson plan Deconstructing the Wall: Teaching About the Symbolism, Politics and Reality of the U.S.-Mexico BorderAdvertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.) Good morning. President Trump addressed a divided government, the pope makes a rare acknowledgement and the #MeToo movement reaches the heights of Costa Ricas political landscape. Heres the latest: President Trump struck some unifying notes in his second State of the Union address, and he also made an extended argument for his border wall.Our coverage includes video of the speech, and analysis, takeaways and fact-checks by our correspondents.The chambers Republicans broke out into chants of U.S.A.! U.S.A.! more than once. The many newly elected Democratic lawmakers also listening were less enthusiastic.And the location of Mr. Trumps second meeting with North Koreas leader, Kim Jong-un, is now public. They will sit down together this month in Vietnam.Other news from Washington: Federal prosecutors ordered Mr. Trumps inaugural committee to turn over documents about donors, guests, finances and activities as part of an investigation into illegal foreign donations.On the plane returning from his historic trip to the United Arab Emirates, the pope said that the Roman Catholic Church had a persistent problem of sexual abuse against nuns by priests and bishops. It was the first time he has commented on the issue. The pope said the Vatican had suspended some priests. Should more be done? Yes. he said. Do we have the will? Yes. But it is a path that we have already begun. Background: In India, Africa and in Italy, Catholic nuns have accused clerics of sexual abuse in recent years. And last week a Vatican magazine wrote about nuns who were either getting abortions or giving birth to the children of priests. In Abu Dhabi: Francis celebrated Mass with about 135,000 Catholics, the largest public Christian rite in the history of the United Arab Emirates.A surprise offer: The pope also expressed a willingness to mediate a peaceful resolution to the political crisis in Venezuela if asked by both President Nicols Maduro and the opposition leader, Juan Guaid.Yesterday, we told you about the alarming prospect of glaciers in the Himalayas melting by a third or more over the next 80 years.But for millions of people from Japan to Wisconsin, ice is already vanishing closer to home. Lakes that used to routinely freeze over arent anymore.Details: For the first time, scientists quantified the effects of climate change on ice cover across 1.4 million lakes in the Northern Hemisphere. They found that thousands have already been experiencing years without ice and that an extensive loss of lake ice will occur within the next generation.Why it matters: Without ice, lakes begin warming earlier in the year, which increases the risk of toxic algal blooms and stresses certain fish. Dependably frozen lakes support cultural and economic activities like ice fishing, skating and winter festivals. Ice roads across lakes and rivers provide wintertime lifelines for remote areas.Representatives from the insurgent group and a delegation of former Afghan officials kicked off two days of talks in Moscow aimed at ending the 18-year conflict.The most significant contact between the Taliban and senior Afghan politicians since 2001, the talks come just a week after the Taliban and American diplomats said they had made significant progress in their own negotiations.Details: The talks offer a window into any future peace deal. The Taliban, which barred women from public life during their time in power, said they now respected womens rights to education and work  a claim met with immediate skepticism in Afghanistan. One former governor who was forced from office last year urged a gradual withdrawal of foreign troops.In Afghanistan: None of the talks have included representatives of the U.S.-backed government in Kabul. President Ashraf Ghani criticized the Moscow meeting as an attempt to undermine the authority of the Afghan state, though Afghanistans political elite is beginning to rally around the peace effort.Of note: Thirty years after the Soviet Union retreated from Afghanistan, the Russian government played a quiet but major role in orchestrating this meeting, and has pointed to the U.S. military presence in the country as the main hindrance to peace.Venezuela: Opposition leaders said theyre preparing to deliver food and medicine donations to ease the countrys shortages, which would likely weaken the authority of President Nicols Maduro. But some major relief organizations are reluctant to cooperate, fearing that the plan could turn aid into a political weapon.#MeToo: A psychiatrist and nuclear disarmament activist has accused the former president of Costa Rica, Oscar Arias Snchez, of sexually assaulting her four years ago, bringing the movement to one of Latin Americas most revered statesman. Paris: At least 10 people were killed and 37 injured after a fire tore through an eight-story building in a residential part of the city  the deadliest in the French capital in over a decade. The fire appeared to be tied to a neighborhood dispute, and the authorities are treating it as a possible case of arson.Islamic State: A British journalist, John Cantlie, who was abducted by the militant group in Syria in 2012 is believed to still be alive, a British official said. Since his capture, Mr. Cantlie has appeared in several online videos often delivering Islamic State propaganda, possibly under coercion, but the last one was released more than two years ago.Japan: The finance minister apologized for saying that people who didnt have children were to blame for the countrys declining population and social security costs.World Bank: President Trump plans to nominate David Malpass, an outspoken critic of the global financial body, to lead it, officials said. Mr. Malpasss stance that multilateral institutions are growing increasingly intrusive squares with the presidents own skepticism of global structures.Myanmar: The Secretariat, where the countrys independence hero, Aung San, was assassinated in 1947, will be the backdrop for a two-day night bazaar promoting ties between Myanmar and the U.S., with Krispy Kreme doughnuts and a live band from the local Hard Rock Cafe. Critics find the event insensitive.Mindfulness: Students at hundreds of schools in Britain will start to learn relaxation techniques, breathing exercises and other methods to help them regulate their emotions, the government said. The new program is aimed at introducing children to the issues around mental health and happiness.Chanel: For its most recent spring fashion show in October, the French luxury house created a beach inside the 828,220-square-foot Grand Palais, complete with real-water waves crashing on the artificial shore. It took nine days and a team of 150 people to pull the ambitious project together.Hummingbirds: Dont be fooled by their beautiful colors and teeny tininess. Studies have found that the birds are ferocious fighters with beaks that have evolved into dangerous weapons for male-to-male conflicts.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Crispy pork chops paired with buttered radishes are an easy weeknight dinner. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more ideas.)Marie Kondos methods can help you tidy, but then you have to find a way to keep the junk from creeping back.Transportation apps relieve the frenzy of navigating an unfamiliar city. Here are a few that go beyond Google Maps and Google Translate.Today is Queen Annes birthday.If only the last Stuart monarch  she reigned from 1702 to 1714  could see herself now.Anne is remembered today mostly for her bad health, her weight and her many miscarriages.They are central to how Olivia Colman portrays the queen in The Favourite, one of the leading films in this years Oscars race. (Ms. Colman got a best actress nod.)The movie focuses on Annes relationship with her favored confidantes  Sarah Churchill and her cousin Abigail Masham  and the many power struggles within the royal court.Shes shown as a weak monarch, if a stubborn one  a view that caught on in her own time and mostly stuck.But historians see another side to Annes reign, too. She ruled during a period of military and economic progress for Britain.She also oversaw the official unification of England and Scotland, creating the United Kingdom.Surely the queen deserves a little credit for all that?Claire Moses, a homescreen editor in our London office, wrote todays Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael Tackett and Catie EdmondsonWASHINGTON  President Trumps evolving definition of a border wall animated negotiations to end a partial government shutdown on Sunday, while House Democrats moved to increase pressure on the president by vowing to pass individual bills to reopen targeted departments that handle critical functions like tax refunds and food stamps.I informed my folks to say that well build a steel barrier, Mr. Trump told reporters after returning to the White House from a senior staff meeting at Camp David. He added of the Democrats, They dont like concrete, so well give them steel.The president characterized the second day of talks between Vice President Mike Pence and Democratic congressional aides as productive after saying earlier in the day that he did not anticipate much progress. But Mr. Trump also said that, if no deal could be reached over his demand for $5.7 billion for the border wall, he was still considering using emergency authority to build the barrier with other government funds.For their part, Democrats said there was no progress as the shutdown entered its 16th day, and asked again that the government be reopened before negotiations on border security money begin.A day before, they had asked the administration for a detailed plan of how such money would be used, and the Office of Management and Budget responded with a letter on Sunday evening reiterating the presidents request for $5.7 billion for the construction of a steel barrier along the southern border. Democrats have rebuffed that figure.Heres how much the proposed border deal would add to existing barriers.But the letter also provided a fuller picture of Mr. Trumps border demands. In a small gesture to Democrats, it said the president wanted $800 million to address urgent humanitarian needs, including enhanced medical treatment. It also asked for funds to support 52,000 detention beds and 2,000 more law enforcement agents.The shutdown, which is threatening to become the longest in American history, is affecting about 800,000 federal workers, many of whom will soon miss their first paycheck, and has curtailed the functions of numerous government agencies. The impasse has also added another crisis to Mr. Trumps turbulent presidency as he adjusts to working in an era in which he must now share power with Democrats.The partys leaders gave little indication that they would come to terms with the president if he simply changed the materials used to construct the wall. Mr. Trump has been talking at least since mid-December about building a wall made up of artistically designed steel slats instead of concrete, but he seized on the idea on Sunday to a new degree.Theres no requirement that this government be shut down while we deliberate the future of any barrier, whether its a fence or a wall, Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, said on CBSs Face the Nation.But Mick Mulvaney, the acting White House chief of staff, said that while he thought the shutdown was going to drag on a lot longer, Mr. Trumps shift in wall materials could provide a semantic opening to advance the talks.If he has to give up a concrete wall, replace it with a steel fence in order to do that so that Democrats can say, See? Hes not building a wall anymore, that should help us move in the right direction, Mr. Mulvaney said on NBCs Meet the Press. If thats not evidence of the presidents desire to try and resolve this, I dont know what is.While Mr. Trump had expressed little hope for the talks on Sunday, he indicated that the coming days would offer a chance to show that resolve. I think were going to have some very serious talks come Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, he said.Democrats believe they have a plan to bring new leverage to the negotiations. Speaker Nancy Pelosi said the House would begin considering individual appropriations bills this week that would reopen the government, starting with legislation that would return workers to the Treasury Department, including the Internal Revenue Service, followed by measures to open the Departments of Agriculture, Housing and Urban Development, and the Interior.Representative Steny H. Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland and the majority leader, said on Meet the Press: Well do it bill by bill so we can help taxpayers, we can help people who need food assistance, we can help people who need housing vouchers, people who need flood insurance. Those bills have little chance in the Senate, where Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, has held fast to his pledge that he would not put any legislation on the floor that the president would not approve.Congressional Republicans employed a bill-by-bill strategy of their own in 2015 on the brink of a government shutdown over funding for Planned Parenthood, only to have Democrats block all 12 spending bills approved by the Appropriations Committee.The president said last week that he opposed that approach, and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, said last month that the president would need to publicly support any funding measures before they were considered, adding that we cant have another situation when the president signals support at first but then reverses himself. Mr. Trump did just that in December after the Senate passed bills to avert the shutdown.Senator Chris Van Hollen of Maryland, whose state has one of the highest concentrations of federal workers, has suggested that Democrats block the consideration of all bills unrelated to opening the government until Senate Republicans allow a vote on the House bills.There may be added pressure on Mr. McConnell from his own ranks. Three Senate Republicans  Susan Collins of Maine, Cory Gardner of Colorado and Thom Tillis of North Carolina  have called for reopening the government. Two other Republican senators who have been critical of the shutdown, Lamar Alexander of Tennessee and Pat Roberts of Kansas, have announced that they will not seek re-election in 2020, so they would not face the electoral consequences of incurring Mr. Trumps wrath.However, some other lawmakers, like Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, who is continuing to advocate a deal in which Mr. Trump would get his wall funding and Democrats would get new protections for the young immigrants known as Dreamers, view the shutdown with less urgency.I do want to open the government, but the goal is not to open the government. The goal is to fix a broken immigration system, Mr. Graham said. He added later, It was pretty clear to me that were never going to have a deal unless we get a wall as part of it.Ms. Pelosi, in her first sit-down interview on network television since reclaiming the speakers gavel last week, blasted Mr. Trump for suggesting that he may unilaterally move to build the border wall.The impression you get from the president is that he would like to not only close government, build a wall, but also abolish Congress so the only voice that mattered was his own, Ms. Pelosi told Jane Pauley in the interview, which aired on CBS Newss Sunday Morning.Representative Adam Smith, Democrat of Washington and the new chairman of the Armed Services Committee, said Mr. Trump did have the power to declare a national emergency to build the wall. Unfortunately, the short answer is yes, he said on ABCs This Week. But he said the president would face a court challenge asking Where is the emergency?Follow Michael Tackett and Catie Edmondson on Twitter: @tackettdc and @catieedmondson.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Nicholas Casey, Albinson Linares and Anatoly KurmanaevCCUTA, Colombia  An ambitious plan by Venezuelas opposition to peacefully import foreign aid in truck convoys degenerated into deadly skirmishes Saturday along the impoverished countrys borders, with a smattering of supplies getting through but most of it blocked by armed loyalists of President Nicols Maduro.The aid deliveries, promised by the opposition leader, Juan Guaid, have been viewed as a major test of his credibility in the month since he declared himself president and promised to call for new elections and end Venezuelas economic free-fall.The humanitarian aid is definitely on its way to Venezuela, in a peaceful manner, to save lives right now, said Mr. Guaid, standing in front of a warehouse on the Colombian side of the border.As the day progressed, some of the humanitarian aid pierced Mr. Maduros blockade  one truck got through on a remote section of the border with Brazil  but most of it did not. And although a few members of the security forces defected, Mr. Guaids hope that the armed forces would step aside and even join his flag-waving supporters did not come to pass.A day that was billed by the opposition as decisive in the struggle with Mr. Maduro over the countrys leadership turned chaotic and inconclusive. Mr. Maduro, furious that Colombia had helped the opposition, broke relations with its government and gave its diplomats 24 hours to get out.There also was no guarantee that the 35-year-old opposition leader, who has emerged as the biggest political threat to Mr. Maduro, would even be allowed back into Venezuela by the authorities, who had barred him from traveling abroad.Mr. Maduro, who has called Mr. Guaid a Trump administration stooge, said the promises of emergency aid masked an American plot to invade Venezuela, and he vowed to thwart it.As protesters clashed with security forces at various points along the border with Brazil in the south and Colombia in the west, a defiant Mr. Maduro took to a stage in the capital, Caracas, dancing the salsa with his wife and addressing supporters in an event carried on national television.I am stronger than ever, he said, before asking, Why am I here? Because you are the ones who decide, not Donald Trump.He also called Mr. Guaid a puppet of imperialism, and explained the break with Colombia, which effectively sealed Venezuela off, as the borders with Brazil and three Caribbean islands were already closed.We cant keep putting up with the Colombian territory being used for attacks against Venezuela, Mr. Maduro said. For that reason, I have decided to break all political and diplomatic relations with Colombias fascist government.The White House condemned the use of force by Mr. Maduros government, warning that rights violations will not go unpunished, and urging the military to uphold its constitutional duty to protect the citizens of Venezuela and allow aid to enter the country.Mike Pence, the vice president, is scheduled to visit Colombia and meet with Ivn Duque, the countrys president, on Monday. He is expected to continue urging Mr. Maduro to step down.Earlier on Saturday, on the borders with Colombia and Brazil, opposition protesters waved banners and chanted antigovernment slogans as they waited to escort trucks full of humanitarian aid across several bridges into Venezuela.Two pickup trucks of aid crossed into Venezuela from the Brazilian town of Pacaraima in the countrys north, in what opposition figures said was a small but symbolic puncture of Mr. Maduros pledge to keep unauthorized assistance out.We did it, said Mara Teresa Belandria, who is the Brazil envoy of Mr. Guaid. This is a major victory.But as of Saturday night, the trucks remained stranded on the border, according to Jess Bobadillo, a Catholic priest in Pacaraima, the Brazilian border town.This whole thing has failed, Mr. Bobadillo said Saturday night in a phone interview, lamenting that with the borders shut, the crisis could worsen for the neediest people. The drama of hunger and lack of medicine continues, but now its even worse because at least before, people had an escape valve.On Friday, Venezuelan forces near the border with Brazil had opened fire on a crowd blocking access to a road, killing two people. On Saturday, the National Guard continued to attack, firing tear gas and live ammunition at civilians, according to the opposition lawmaker Amrico de Grazia.By the end of the day Saturday, at least two more people were dead, according to Alfredo Romero, the head of Foro Penal, an organization that tracks violence in Venezuela. And Colombias migration authorities said 23 members of the security forces had crossed the border and defected from Mr. Maduros authoritarian regime.But there were no signs of major breaches in the blockade. Trouble erupted as a march near a footbridge to Colombia degenerated into running battles between young protesters and security forces, underscoring the risks Mr. Maduros adversaries are taking in their campaign against him.That march, in the Venezuelan border town of Urea, was meant to clear a path for aid to be delivered via a footbridge blocked by Mr. Maduros forces. Local residents tried to storm the bridge, but Venezuelan security forces fired tear gas to disperse them, and clashes left a trail of damage and burning vehicles.I just couldnt keep quiet anymore, said Edilson Cisneros, who was hit with buckshot as he walked with opposition lawmakers in Urea. Too many people are having a hard time here. This cant go on like that anymore.The border showdown has become one of the most tense and unusual in the regions history.Mr. Guaid has been recognized as Venezuelas interim president by more than 50 countries, including the United States. He has staked his challenge to Mr. Maduro on a promise that he will do what the president refuses to: open the country, which suffers from deadly shortages of food and medicine, to international aid shipments.The White House has waded deep into the standoff, authorizing shipments of aid on military planes and holding a rally at which President Trump warned Venezuelas military to abandon Mr. Maduro or lose everything.Mr. Maduro now claims that the aid containers are part of a plot that will lead to an American invasion. His government erected shipping containers on the Tienditas Bridge to keep the aid out.Before the border closing, Mr. Guaid himself slipped into Colombia, where he was greeted like a rock star at a Latin pop music concert in support of the opposition that was sponsored by the British billionaire Richard Branson.Several hundred Venezuelans had gathered on Friday night in an empty lot beside the Tienditas Bridge here in the Colombian border city of Ccuta, under a massive flag hung from a crane. Many slept on open ground in the makeshift camp as opposition activists organized prayer circles and danced to salsa music, calling for the downfall of Mr. Maduro.I know its been a long night, but we are moving ahead, an opposition member, Adolfo Marn, said to the crowd. Remember we have a blockade, but manpower is supernatural  believe me, with a small group of people we can move these containers with a push and a shove.Victor Barboza, an organizer in the camp, said: The soldiers of the lower and middle classes today need humanitarian aid, too, referring to the security forces waiting on the other side of the bridge. They have a child who eats just one meal a day. They have a sister who cant get medication for her illness.Many Colombians expressed sympathy with Mr. Guaids cause and solidarity with those on the other side of the border. But many others, like Mr. Bobadillo, the priest, lamented that humanitarian aid has become heavily politicized as the standoff between Mr. Maduro and Mr. Guaid escalates.Its been used and abused by both sides, Mr. Bobadillo said. I am not a political analyst, but I fear that in the end this may leave us with Maduro feeling stronger and more arrogant.Nicholas Casey and Albinson Linares reported from Ccuta, and Anatoly Kurmanaev from Urea, Venezuela. Reporting was contributed by Isayen Herrera from Ccuta, Ana Vanessa Herrero from Caracas, Venezuela, Ernesto Londoo from Rio de Janeiro, and Megan Specia and Rick Gladstone from New York.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Cade MetzEach year, millions of Americans walk out of a doctors office with a misdiagnosis. Physicians try to be systematic when identifying illness and disease, but bias creeps in. Alternatives are overlooked.Now a group of researchers in the United States and China has tested a potential remedy for all-too-human frailties: artificial intelligence.In a paper published on Monday in Nature Medicine, the scientists reported that they had built a system that automatically diagnoses common childhood conditions  from influenza to meningitis  after processing the patients symptoms, history, lab results and other clinical data.The system was highly accurate, the researchers said, and one day may assist doctors in diagnosing complex or rare conditions.Drawing on the records of nearly 600,000 Chinese patients who had visited a pediatric hospital over an 18-month period, the vast collection of data used to train this new system highlights an advantage for China in the worldwide race toward artificial intelligence.Because its population is so large  and because its privacy norms put fewer restrictions on the sharing of digital data  it may be easier for Chinese companies and researchers to build and train the deep learning systems that are rapidly changing the trajectory of health care.On Monday, President Trump signed an executive order meant to spur the development of A.I. across government, academia and industry in the United States. As part of this American A.I. Initiative, the administration will encourage federal agencies and universities to share data that can drive the development of automated systems.Pooling health care data is a particularly difficult endeavor. Whereas researchers went to a single Chinese hospital for all the data they needed to develop their artificial-intelligence system, gathering such data from American facilities is rarely so straightforward.You have go to multiple places, said Dr. George Shih, associate professor of clinical radiology at Weill Cornell Medical Center and co-founder of MD.ai, a company that helps researchers label data for A.I. services. The equipment is never the same. You have to make sure the data is anonymized. Even if you get permission, it is a massive amount of work.After reshaping internet services, consumer devices and driverless cars in the early part of the decade, deep learning is moving rapidly into myriad areas of health care. Many organizations, including Google, are developing and testing systems that analyze electronic health records in an effort to flag medical conditions such as osteoporosis, diabetes, hypertension and heart failure.Similar technologies are being built to automatically detect signs of illness and disease in X-rays, M.R.I.s and eye scans.The new system relies on a neural network, a breed of artificial intelligence that is accelerating the development of everything from health care to driverless cars to military applications. A neural network can learn tasks largely on its own by analyzing vast amounts of data.Using the technology, Dr. Kang Zhang, chief of ophthalmic genetics at the University of California, San Diego, has built systems that can analyze eye scans for hemorrhages, lesions and other signs of diabetic blindness. Ideally, such systems would serve as a first line of defense, screening patients and pinpointing those who need further attention.Now Dr. Zhang and his colleagues have created a system that can diagnose an even wider range of conditions by recognizing patterns in text, not just in medical images. This may augment what doctors can do on their own, he said.In some situations, physicians cannot consider all the possibilities, he said. This system can spot-check and make sure the physician didnt miss anything.The experimental system analyzed the electronic medical records of nearly 600,000 patients at the Guangzhou Women and Childrens Medical Center in southern China, learning to associate common medical conditions with specific patient information gathered by doctors, nurses and other technicians.First, a group of trained physicians annotated the hospital records, adding labels that identified information related to certain medical conditions. The system then analyzed the labeled data.Then the neural network was given new information, including a patients symptoms as determined during a physical examination. Soon it was able to make connections on its own between written records and observed symptoms.When tested on unlabeled data, the software could rival the performance of experienced physicians. It was more than 90 percent accurate at diagnosing asthma; the accuracy of physicians in the study ranged from 80 to 94 percent.In diagnosing gastrointestinal disease, the system was 87 percent accurate, compared with the physicians accuracy of 82 to 90 percent.Able to recognize patterns in data that humans could never identify on their own, neural networks can be enormously powerful in the right situation. But even experts have difficulty understanding why such networks make particular decisions and how they teach themselves.As a result, extensive testing is needed to reassure both doctors and patients that these systems are reliable.Experts said extensive clinical trials are now needed for Dr. Zhangs system, given the difficulty of interpreting decisions made by neural networks.Medicine is a slow-moving field, said Ben Shickel, a researcher at the University of Florida who specializes in the use of deep learning for health care. No one is just going to deploy one of these techniques without rigorous testing that shows exactly what is going on.It could be years before deep-learning systems are deployed in emergency rooms and clinics. But some are closer to real-world use: Google is now running clinical trials of its eye-scan system at two hospitals in southern India.Deep-learning diagnostic tools are more likely to flourish in countries outside the United States, Dr. Zhang said. Automated screening systems may be particularly useful in places where doctors are scarce, including in India and China.The system built by Dr. Zhang and his colleagues benefited from the large scale of the data set gathered from the hospital in Guangzhou. Similar data sets from American hospitals are typically smaller, both because the average hospital is smaller and because regulations make it difficult to pool data from multiple facilities.Dr. Zhang said he and his colleagues were careful to protect patients privacy in the new study. But he acknowledged that researchers in China may have an advantage when it comes to collecting and analyzing this kind of data.The sheer size of the population  the sheer size of the data  is a big difference, he said.OpinionDhruv KhullarAdvertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byGood Sunday morning. (Was this email forwarded to you? Sign up here.)The week of the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum is a fire hose of news. Headlines, predictions, sightings and tidbits that months and years later are recognized as the flash point for much larger shifts and trends can often get overlooked.To help you sort through it all, weve put together this crib sheet of everything that we think was important that happened here in Davos. (Yes, Im writing this from Davos on my way home.)Before we get into the substance, a couple of observations.The World Economic Forum has traditionally brought together the worlds top political and business leaders. But this year, the political leaders were largely absent  remaining in their home countries to handle crises largely of their own making (President Trump with the shutdown and Prime Minister Theresa May with Brexit).The surprise guest this year was Tim Cook, Apples chief executive, making his first appearance; it may be an indication of Apples increasing dependence on foreign markets for growth.The topic du jour (besides the shutdown) was a debate over where the global economy was headed. Chief executives professed confidence that their earnings would continue apace, while economists and investors talked about the prospect of a recession in 2020. And others, like Ray Dalio  and Seth Klarman, who did not attend, but whose annual letter was a constant talking point  worried about social unrest. Interestingly, Dr. Doom  Nouriel Roubini  was actually upbeat.A Chinese chief executive described his countrys economy as ugly  he used that world repeatedly  suggesting that the underlying foundation there was more fragile than most economists acknowledge. That could lead to weakness in China spreading to the rest of the world. And the general sense is that while the U.S. and China may reach a trade dtente, we might be headed for a decades-long economic cold war.Larry Finks letter and the concept of E.S.G., shorthand for environmental, social and governance, got a lot of discussion this year  it felt like it might be a tipping point in the dialogue. European companies are still more interested in E.S.G. than U.S. companies, but it feels like a trend that isnt going away. TPGs Rise Fund started a new company, Y Analytics, to measure E.S.G. Bono, a board member of Rise, was on hand to talk about impact investing and to support his Red brand, which he started a decade ago in Davos (DealBook broke that story at the time) as well as his One franchise. Matt Damon was in town to raise money for his water.org, which is turning into a quite successful story (side note: Mr. Damon had to borrow a suit because his bag got lost by Swiss Air). Jane Goodall was also in Davos  and let me say that she is as nice as she is important. Even the Vatican sent a delegation to talk about conscious and inclusive capitalism.And Rebecca Blumenstein, the deputy managing editor of The New York Times, interviewed Bill Gates on Twitter about his work around the globe.____________________________Todays DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin in Davos, Switzerland; Stephen Grocer in New York; and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________The soap opera of tariff negotiations has riveted economists and executives: Will Beijing keep its promises? Will Washington cooperate?But the real drama is not about trade, but about technology, many in Davos have said. The brewing conflict could affect generations and disrupt the world order, according to Fred Kempe, the chief executive of the think tank Atlantic Council. He wrote:The growing danger is that the tech race could become the primary battleground in a struggle between democracy and autocracy  and between China and the U.S. The dangers of a technological Cold War, a zero-sum contest for global dominance that ultimately separates Chinese and U.S. tech sectors from each other and divides up the world, are increasing.Whats the worry? The billionaire George Soros said that artificial intelligence, when in the hands of authoritarian regimes, was a mortal threat to the world. He cited China, which is developing a social credit system that would use personal data to judge an individuals trustworthiness, as an example. President Xi Jinping could eventually have total control over the people, making him the most dangerous opponent of open societies, Mr. Soros said.What do the Chinese think? The technology industry relies heavily on global interactions and is probably suffering the most right now, said Ken Hu, the deputy chairman of Huawei. The Chinese telecommunications company has been accused by multiple nations, including the U.S., of violating trade rules. Other players, such as the Chinese state-owned oil and gas company Sinopec, say they expect Chinese companies to scale back foreign investment  steps already taken by Alibaba and by GAC Motor. Last year, nearly 60 percent of Chinese C.E.O.s considered the U.S. to be the most important foreign market; this year, only 17 percent feel the same, according to one survey published this past week.Hope for resolution? Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said via video link that Washington was willing to play nice with Beijing if China pledged to protect intellectual property. At a dinner in Davos, a top Chinese regulator heard complaints from international business leaders about the ownership structure of state-owned enterprises and about the Made in China 2025 effort, which aims to take the lead in industries such as artificial intelligence and robotics.But China wants its space. Vice President Wang Qishan said in a speech that it is imperative to respect national sovereignty and refrain from seeking technological hegemony. He added:We need to respect the independent choices of model of technology management and of public policies made by countries, and their right to participating in the global technological governance system as equals.A recession may not be coming this year, but neither is a boom, Greg Ip of the WSJ writes.The International Monetary Fund downgraded its 2019 forecast for global growth to 3.5 percent. Thats a respectable number, he writes, but the world is struggling to sustain even that muted pace.The reason: The world cannot tolerate interest rates as high as it once did. The neutral interest rate  one that is high enough to contain inflation, yet low enough to avoid recession  is much lower than before.The underlying cause: As aging workers retire and birthrates drop, the labor force has grown more slowly. Productivity has also eked out smaller gains than in the past.The upshot: Central banks need to proceed carefully, because a little fiscal tightening goes a long way.More on the global economy: Ray Dalio, founder and chairman of the hedge fund Bridgewater, said he foresaw slower growth rates in the U.S. and Europe. France is sticking to a 1.7 percent economic growth forecast for 2019, the French finance minister, Bruno Le Maire, said. Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the I.M.F., warned against an overreliance on central banks, urging countries to strengthen their economies through fiscal and structural changes. In the absence of world leaders, the atmosphere was downbeat.Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez wasnt in Davos this week. It just felt like she was.The New York representatives proposal to impose a 70 percent tax rate on income above $10 million came up frequently among the uber-wealthy in attendance.In those elite circles, filled with people whose fortunes have soared in recent years, the idea was not popular.Michael Dell, the billionaire founder of Dell Technologies, is not a fan, for one. Scott Minerd, the chief investment officer of Guggenheim Partners, said the concept was scary. Glenn Hutchins, the chairman of North Island and a co-founder of Silver Lake Partners, suggested that it was an attempt to score political points and that it would probably be unsuccessful. Ken Moelis, the chief executive of the investment bank Moelis & Company, said it would be disastrous for the economy.Stephen Schwarzman, the billionaire chief executive of Blackstone, said he was wildly enthusiastic about Ms. Ocasio-Cortezs pitch. (He was being sarcastic.)But as the economy slows and 2020 election talk surges, taxing the rich is a topic that will most likely continue to surface. Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, a Democratic candidate for president, proposed a so-called ultramillionaire tax this week on the 75,000 wealthiest families in the country, including President Trumps.Still, top earners would probably figure out how to sidestep such rules, Mr. Minerd said.The political pendulum is swinging. The conservatives found out theyre being held hostage by the extreme right. Now the Democrats are going to find out theyre being held hostage by the extreme left.Globalization had some powerful defenders in Davos, with world leaders imploring delegates not to abandon postwar principles of international integration.Several took jabs at the absent President Trump without mentioning him by name, criticizing his America First foreign policy and his habit of provoking trade disputes. The vice president of China, Wang Qishan, whose own country has been accused of running roughshod over foreign competitors and global business rules, nonetheless condemned practices of the strong bullying the weak and self-claimed supremacy.Carrie Lam, the chief executive of Hong Kong, said that certain countries were drifting from the multilateral framework of the past few decades.If that is no longer the mainstream, we could be in trouble, she said.Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, who leads a country that is deeply reliant on international trade and increasingly surrounded by neighbors confronted by protectionist tendencies, urged Western powers to act against the fragmentation of the international architecture.She said that global organizations such as the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank should be reformed and that countries should embrace compromise. She added:I think we should understand our national interest in a way that we think about the interests of others, and from that create win-win situations that are the precondition for multilateralism.Shinzo Abe, the prime minister of Japan, pledged his countrys support for the free, open, and rules-based international order. He called on forum participants to rebuild trust toward the system for international trade.World leaders called for more regulation. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan said his country would push for a new international system for the oversight of data use.His proposal was echoed by others: The South African president, Cyril Ramaphosa, said African Union leaders would discuss greater oversight of the tech sector at a meeting early next month. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany cited a need for the European Union to have a common digital market. Vice President Wang Qishan of China also said that more international cooperation in regulating the market was required.Talk focused on global governance, data privacy and the impact of artificial intelligence, but there was no consensus on what approach to take. Some official sessions tried to put a positive spin on the effects of technological advances, but the optimism seemed out of step with public concern about the disruptive effect on privacy and politics.Tech leaders make the rounds: On his first trip to the forum, Tim Cook, the Apple chief executive, met with world leaders, including President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil and Dubais crown prince, Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum. Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer of Facebook, acknowledged that her company needed to earn back the trust of the public. Microsofts chief executive, Satya Nadella, said that as facial recognition technology grew, he would welcome regulation that will help the marketplace not be a race to the bottom.Environmental issues took center stage, with world leaders and celebrities weighing in and new partnerships being formed. One of the biggest initiatives announced at the forum was an alternative recycling platform called Loop, which seeks to change the way consumers buy brand-name products.The concept: The project revives the milkman concept, in which products are delivered in reusable containers that are returned to the manufacturer.The partners: Some of the largest consumer goods companies  including Danone, Mars Petcare, Mondelez International, Nestl, PepsiCo, Procter & Gamble and Unilever  are working together on the project as a way to limit waste.The pitchman: Tom Szaky, founder and chief executive of the recycling company TerraCycle, headed to Davos two years ago to meet with the leaders of packaged goods companies and push his big idea.Climate concerns dominated much of the discussion elsewhere at the gathering: In an interview with Prince William, the naturalist David Attenborough took world leaders to task for waiting too long to address climate change. Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand joined the chorus, urging her global counterparts to think about the role they play in addressing climate change, while Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan called for action on the issue. The singer Bono poked fun at sustainable development goals, saying, The S.D.G.s, it does sound like a sexually transmitted disease, doesnt it? An expected drop in private jet traffic to Davos this year could be a sign that participants are taking the environmental impact of their travel more seriously. Greta Thunberg, a 16-year-old climate activist from Sweden, gave a speech urging the global elite to protect the planet. Forum participants seemed receptive to Saudi Arabias damage control campaign over the killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi. (Reuters)The World Economic Forum hosts 3,000 official participants, but the population of Davos swells to 30,000 during the week. Here are the unaffiliated events, sessions and parties that drew celebrities like Matt Damon and Wyclef Jean. (CNBC) The Bank of England is ready for Brexit and is disillusioned with Bitcoin, said its governor, Mark Carney. (Bloomberg) Hundreds of protesters, some waving signs that read Let them eat money, complained that the elite participants at Davos cared more about the bottom line than about the state of the world. (AP)Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byWhen democracy becomes combat, facts become weapons.By William DaviesMr. Davies is the author of the forthcoming Nervous States: Democracy and the Decline of Reason. LONDON A good indication of liberalisms declining health is the rising profile of the military in domestic politics.As the clock ticks down on Britains Brexit negotiations and the prospect of no deal rises, the fallback of military security looms into view. Britains defense secretary, Gavin Williamson, has stated that an additional 3,500 troops will be on standby to help ensure supplies get into the country, and government officials reportedly have examined the option of martial law in the event of major civil unrest. It is hard not to detect a whiff of excitement about all of this in the reactions of hard-core Brexiteers and their supporters in the media.A similar sickness is evident across the Atlantic. President Trump has declared a state of emergency, provoked by a supposed crisis at the Mexican border, and he has deployed American troops on home soil. Brazils new president, Jair Bolsonaro, a former army captain who exemplifies many of the most frightening trends about the new strongman leaders around the world, has been steadily putting military personnel in key government positions.These are more explicit demonstrations of military muscle, but the sense that politics has become warlike has been brewing for a while. War metaphors (culture war, social justice warrior) accumulate steadily, each implying a breakdown of common political ground. One way to understand the upheavals of the past decade, manifest in political populism and the surge in talk about post-truth and fake news, is as the penetration of warlike mobilization and propaganda into our democracies.The principle that military and civilian operations should remain separate has been a cornerstone of liberal politics since religious and civil wars tore through Europe in the mid-17th century. The modern division between the army and civil policing originates in late-17th-century England, when early forms of public administration came to treat (and finance) the two independently of each other. Since then, the rule of law has been distinguished from rule by force.However, there is an opposing vision of the modern state that also has a long history. According to this alternative ideal, the division between civil government and the military is a pacifists conceit that needs overcoming. And its not a coincidence that these days nationalists are especially keen to employ the rhetoric of warfare: The wars that fuel the nationalist imagination are not simply military affairs, going on far away between professional soldiers, but also mass mobilizations of politicians, civilians and infrastructure. Ever since the Napoleonic Wars witnessed conscription and the strategic mobilization of the economy, nationalists have looked to war to generate national solidarity and a sense of purpose.There is another distinctive characteristic of military situations that civilian life often lacks: the promise of an instant response, without the delays that go with democratic argument or expert analysis. Warfare requires knowledge, of course, just not of the same variety that we are familiar with in times of peace. In civil society, the facts provided by economists, statisticians, reporters and academic scientists have a peace-building quality to the extent that they provide a common reality that can be agreed upon. The ideal of independent expertise, which cannot be swayed by money or power, has been crucial in allowing political opponents to nevertheless agree on certain basic features of reality. Facts remove questions of truth from the domain of politics.War demands a different, more paranoid system of expertise and knowledge, which looks at the world as an uncertain and hostile place, where nothing is fixed. In situations of conflict, the most valuable attribute of knowledge is not that it generates public consensus but that it is up to the minute and aids rapid decision making. Meanwhile, the information shared with the public must be tailored to incite mass enthusiasm and animosity rather than objectivity.The conditions that most lend themselves to military responses are those in which time is running out. Of course, many of the emergencies that we face today are fictions: the emergency at the Mexican border or, perhaps, the British governments intentional exaggerations of the threat of a no deal Brexit to put pressure on Parliament. Framing an issue as an emergency where time is of the essence is a means of bypassing the much slower civilian world of deliberation and facts.But there is something else going on. Because of technological changes of the past 30 years or so, initially in our financial system but subsequently in our media, political decision makers are increasingly short on time, having to react instantly to a constant flow of data. (If there is one feature of the military mind-set that we can all occasionally relate to, its that we dont have very much time.) Many of the anxieties surrounding post-truth and fake news are really symptoms of a public sphere that moves too quickly, with too great a volume of information, to the point where we either trust our instincts or latch on to others. Theres a reason Twitter invites users to follow one another, a metaphor that implies that amid a deluge of data, truth is ultimately determined by leadership.Its hardly a coincidence that many of the most transformative technologies that today enable decision makers and strategists to react fastest to a rapidly changing environment  like the digital computer and the internet  were first developed for military purposes. These same technologies have also taken over the civilian and economic worlds, as tools of surveillance and real time tracking shift from theaters of war to the realm of market research and psychographic profiling of voters. Social media has introduced games of strategy into public discourse, with deception and secrecy  information warfare  now normal parts of how arguments play out.The culture of an over-accelerated public sphere, wrought largely by technologies that we dont know how to slow, is partly responsible for making democracy feel more like combat. But what can we do about it? Liberalism is not set up for this kind of challenge. The liberal ideal of civility is one in which argument and research can move at their own pace and decisions are made after the evidence is in. The separation of war from peace that laid the ground for liberal democracy to develop was originally a legal achievement, whereas now it also requires defending sanctuaries of slowness in the news media, market and universities.But there is also an undeniable urgency about many of the problems and threats that confront liberal democracies today, like climate change and the rising economic precarity of vulnerable populations. Familiar political divisions surrounding class and identity now provoke rapid, unpredictable new movements, facilitated by social media.When nationalists introduce metaphors and symbols of war, they connect with a real and realistic sense that time is running out. But for those of us who want to see fewer soldiers on the streets rather than more, the challenge is to find civil  not military  responses to social, economic and ecological problems that escalate at such a pace that they have come to feel like enemy combatants.William Davies (@davies_will) is a sociologist and political economist at Goldsmiths, University of London, and the author of the forthcoming Nervous States: Democracy and the Decline of Reason, from which this essay is adapted.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Alex WongScott Van Pelt closed an episode of SportsCenter last month with a two-minute monologue about the 31st anniversary of his fathers death. Strengthened by two friends who had recently lost their parents, Van Pelt spoke passionately about running from grief, and encouraged everyone to do the opposite  to articulate their pain so they could overcome it.The segment went viral. It embodied the essential traits of Van Pelts version of ESPNs flagship show  sensitivity, nuance and the courage to be vulnerable  that help him connect with viewers.Its a great reminder of the power of the microphone we hold in our hands, Van Pelt said.But that power is changing  disappearing, even  as television viewing habits change and sports media develop new ways to bring fans what they want when they want it. (Now!) That means what was once a premier placement in TV sports  the anchor desk  is not the high perch it used to be. It is not clear anymore what it is at all.Not so long ago, sports fans operated on a schedule dictated by the programming that was available on TV. The sports highlight show, SportsCenter being the most popular one, was appointment viewing.It was where sports fans went to see the highlights they could only read about in the newspaper. People came to know its anchors: Keith Olbermann, Linda Cohn, Stuart Scott, Robin Roberts, Dan Patrick, to name a few. They complemented the sports clips with their own personalities and, in the case of Scott, redefined the highlight show genre.But today, highlights flood fans Twitter timelines immediately: a buzzer beater on loop seconds after it drops through the net; a touchdown from multiple angles before referees have ruled it good. They flood our Instagram feeds thanks to users like House of Highlights, which delivers the days most important sports highlights to more than 12 million followers.SportsCenter, even with six editions each weekday, can no longer dangle the carrot of providing clips unavailable anywhere else. On most nights, when the highlight package rolls, Van Pelt is telling a majority of the viewers about something they have already seen.Every person covering sports is trying to figure out the riddle, Van Pelt said. He asked how a program could deliver highlights to you in a way that you will want it and convince yourself that you will need it.Omar Raja, 24, is the founder of House of Highlights. He grew up watching sports highlights on the local news with his father every morning. When Kobe Bryant scored 81 points against the Toronto Raptors in 2006, he did not find out about it until he turned on his TV the next morning.Its crazy to think 10 years ago, we had to wait until the next day to find out what happened the night before, Raja said.Rajas team can now offer instant access to what everyone is talking about. But Raja thinks traditional and new-age highlights delivery systems can coexist. He still watches SportsCenter, after all, especially Van Pelts midnight edition.I dont really listen to him for the highlights, Raja said. I just listen to him for his thoughts on things. Hes a good personality, and hes charismatic.When Van Pelt took over as anchor in 2015, he said, he decided to lean on his personality and trust the audience to connect with his curiosity about sports.Per ESPN, Van Pelt has consistently generated higher ratings among 18-to 34-year-old men in his midnight time slot than late-night talk shows on broadcast or cable. Other sports anchors have tried a similar approach, to lesser degrees of success.Jay Onrait and Dan OTooles show on Fox Sports went through several iterations before pivoting toward a late-night show format; it was canceled in 2017. Jemele Hill and Michael Smith were chosen to overhaul the 6 p.m. SportsCenter, but the reformatted show  called SC6 or The Six  lasted a little more than a year before it was broken up in 2018. During its run, Hill was criticized for a post to her personal Twitter account about President Trump, and for another about the N.F.L., for which ESPN suspended her.To ignore the racial component and the climate that they faced would be completely dishonest, Van Pelt said of Hill and Smith, who are African-American. They faced challenges that I didnt face. They also didnt have the benefits that I have.Those benefits include a midnight slot that allows Van Pelt to experiment in front of a smaller potential audience, and stronger lead-ins from Monday Night Football during the N.F.L. season.Onrait, who now hosts Jay and Dan on TSN in Canada at midnight, has adopted the sensibilities of a late-night talk-show host in this turn as a sports anchor.Personality is whats going to rule the next phase of television, Onrait said.Others, such as Skip Bayless of Fox Sports, combine so-called hot takes with continuous criticism of high-profile athletes like LeBron James to connect with viewers.The only thing that really worked at Fox was Skip, Onrait said. Nothing was working until Skip showed up. No one got ratings. I know lots of people have made a living out of crapping on the guy, but what he did was bring actual viewers to the network. He was the only one who did that.In a statement to The New York Times, Norby Williamson, an ESPN executive who oversees SportsCenter, pushed back against the idea that the show is becoming obsolete.We recognize that people have many options for viewing highlights now, but we continue to develop presentations that youre not going to see anywhere else, Williamson said. Well show you what happened but also how it happened and why.While ESPN still sees its network and the SportsCenter franchise as vital to the fans experience, what really matters is whether viewers will continue to see it this way.Van Pelt knows that reckoning is coming soon.I keep thinking to myself this is a short window, Van Pelt said. It wont go on forever.An earlier version of this article misstated the number of editions of SportsCenter each weekday. There are six, not four.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Ben Protess, William K. Rashbaum, Benjamin Weiser and Maggie HabermanEven as the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, submitted his confidential report to the Justice Department on Friday, federal and state prosecutors are pursuing about a dozen other investigations that largely grew out of his work, all but ensuring that a legal threat will continue to loom over the Trump presidency.Most of the investigations focus on President Trump or his family business or a cadre of his advisers and associates, according to court records and interviews with people briefed on the investigations. They are being conducted by officials from Los Angeles to Brooklyn, with about half of them being run by the United States attorneys office in Manhattan.Unlike Mr. Mueller, whose mandate was largely focused on any links between the Trump campaign and the Russian governments interference in the 2016 presidential election, the federal prosecutors in Manhattan take an expansive view of their jurisdiction. That authority has enabled them, along with F.B.I. agents, to scrutinize a broader orbit around the president, including his family business.Mr. Trump told The New York Times in 2017 that any examination of his familys finances, beyond any relationship to Russia, would cross a red line, and last year he privately asked the former acting attorney general, Matthew G. Whitaker, if someone he viewed as loyal could be put in charge of the investigations at the Manhattan office, The Times reported last month.[Read more: Before Muellers report, the president waged a two-year war against the Trump-Russia investigations.]Some of those federal investigations in the Manhattan office, known as the Southern District of New York, grew out of its case against Michael D. Cohen, the presidents former lawyer and fixer. The inquiry into Mr. Cohen was turned over to the Manhattan federal prosecutors early last year after Mr. Muellers office spent months investigating him, court records unsealed this week show.By dint of its location in Manhattan, a few miles south of the Trump Organizations offices on Fifth Avenue, the Southern District was a natural landing spot for the Cohen case.Situated in a drab, nine-story Brutalist-style building nestled among the federal courthouse, Police Headquarters and the Church of St. Andrew, the office has a history of high-profile prosecutions and personnel. From the espionage trial of the Rosenbergs in the early 1950s to the case of an Egyptian sheikh who plotted to bomb city landmarks four decades later, the offices prosecutions have started the careers of judges, F.B.I. directors and even a New York City mayor.Since Mr. Cohen pleaded guilty in August to helping arrange hush money payments to women who said they had affairs with Mr. Trump, the prosecutors have focused on what role the Trump Organization and its executives, including its longtime chief financial officer, may have played in the scheme, according to people briefed on the matter.Mr. Cohen, who is scheduled to begin serving a three-year prison sentence in May, has assisted the prosecutors with that inquiry as well as a separate investigation into the presidents inaugural committee, the people said.The prosecutors have also examined information brought by Mr. Cohen that he hopes will reduce his sentence, the people said, including whether Mr. Trumps lawyers considered offering him a presidential pardon to keep him quiet and whether the Trump Organization possibly inflated insurance claims several years ago.At this point, it is unclear whether anyone will be charged with a crime. Some of the investigations involve allegations that may be too old to be prosecuted. Yet taken together, the investigations show that the prosecutorial center of gravity has shifted from Mr. Muellers office in Washington to New York.The important thing to remember is that almost everything Donald Trump did was in the Southern District of New York, said John S. Martin Jr., a retired federal judge who was the United States attorney in the Southern District during the Carter and Reagan administrations.He ran his business in the Southern District. He ran his campaign from the Southern District, Judge Martin said. He came home to New York every night.In an interview that aired on Friday morning, Mr. Trump told Maria Bartiromo of Fox Business Network that his lawyers were perplexed by reports that he faces multiple investigations.I said to my lawyers, Are we being looked at here? Mr. Trump said, adding that his lawyers dont even know what people are talking about.James M. Margolin, a spokesman for the Southern District, declined to comment, as did the Trump Organization.The precise number of federal investigations around the country that have grown out of the special counsels work remains unknown because such inquiries are conducted in secret. But the special counsels office farmed out strands of its inquiry to at least three other United States attorneys offices, including in Brooklyn, the District of Columbia and the Eastern District of Virginia.People briefed on the federal investigations said the prosecutors in Brooklyn have raised questions about donations to the Trump inaugural committee, which was chaired by Thomas J. Barrack, a longtime friend of Mr. Trump. They have been examining Mr. Barracks ties to the Middle East, among other matters, according to the people briefed on the work.[Read more: Unraveling the Trump-Russia story so far.]Federal prosecutors in the District of Columbia will handle the prosecution of the Trump political adviser Roger J. Stone Jr., who was charged as part of Mr. Muellers investigation. And the Justice Department continues to investigate the business and political dealings of Elliott Broidy, a top fund-raiser for Mr. Trumps campaign and inauguration, who tried to use his access to the Trump team to boost his businesses. Federal investigators in Los Angeles have also taken part in the inquiry and have raised questions about the inauguration, according to people briefed on the matter.Separately, state authorities in New York are pursuing several investigations focused on the president, his associates and his business. Those matters include a mortgage fraud case against Mr. Trumps former campaign chairman, Paul J. Manafort, as well as civil inquiries into the Trump Organizations insurance practices, real estate deals, and whether the familys charitable foundation violated tax laws.As for the Southern District, it is known to move aggressively  more so than some other offices  to stake a claim to new investigations based on tips from cooperating witnesses and other sources. In this instance, it appears to be leading some of the most sensitive spinoffs  ones with the potential to directly affect Mr. Trumps business, his inaugural committee and possibly himself.In the hush money investigation, the Southern District prosecutors have already implicated the president, claiming in a court filing that Mr. Cohen acted in coordination with and at the direction of Mr. Trump. While the prevailing view at the Justice Department is that a sitting president cannot be indicted, the prosecutors in Manhattan could consider charging him after he leaves office, particularly if he does not win re-election and is a private citizen before the legal deadline to file charges expires.The investigation into the Trump inaugural committee partly grew out of a recording that F.B.I. agents seized when they raided Mr. Cohens home and office. On the recording, Mr. Cohen is heard discussing potential irregularities with one of the main contractors for the inauguration. The Southern District is investigating, among other things, whether the committee made false filings with the Federal Election Commission and received illegal donations from foreign nationals, a subpoena from the investigation shows.In addition, the Southern District took on two investigations stemming from the cases against Mr. Manafort, who was prosecuted by Mr. Muellers office and was recently sentenced to more than seven years in prison for a litany of crimes.In one of the investigations, the prosecutors are weighing charges against the officer of a bank that Mr. Manafort has acknowledged defrauding, according to people briefed on the matter.In the other, Mr. Muellers team referred investigations involving three firms that worked with Mr. Manafort  the lobbying firms Mercury Public Affairs and Podesta Group, and the law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom  to the Southern District for potential prosecution under the Foreign Agents Registration Act.Since then, Skadden reached a settlement with the Justice Department. But prosecutors in Washington are weighing charges against Skaddens lead lawyer on the firms work in consultation with Mr. Manafort in 2012 on behalf of the Ukrainian government, while the Southern District has retained control of the investigations of Mercury and the Podesta Group, according to people familiar with the matter.The Southern Districts reputation for nonpartisanship  and history of autonomy from the Justice Department in Washington, giving it the nickname Sovereign District  may make it less vulnerable to attacks from the president and his allies. The presidents lead lawyer, Rudolph W. Giuliani, led the office from 1983 to 1989 and later became New Yorks mayor.The Southern Districts role in Trump-related cases comes at a time of transition for the office, which is led by Geoffrey S. Berman, who was appointed in January 2018 by the Trump administration.Mr. Berman notified Justice Department officials early last year of a possible appearance of a conflict of interest in the Cohen investigation, and officials concluded that he should be recused, for reasons that have not been disclosed.In his stead, Mr. Bermans handpicked deputy, Robert S. Khuzami, led the Cohen investigation. But on Friday, Mr. Berman announced that Mr. Khuzami will step down from his post next month to return home to Washington.Mr. Berman named his senior counsel, Audrey Strauss, as Mr. Khuzamis successor. Ms. Strauss, who had already been deeply involved in the Cohen investigation, will assume responsibility for any remaining aspects of the Cohen inquiry that were subject to Mr. Bermans recusal.Mr. Khuzamis departure will not directly affect most of the other Trump-related investigations, which Mr. Berman has supervised. Mr. Bermans name, for example, appeared on a February grand jury subpoena served on the presidents inaugural committee.For the most part, the investigations surrounding the president and his associates have been assigned to career prosecutors in the offices public corruption unit, which has a track record of convicting politicians on both sides of the aisle. Those prosecutors work on the eighth floor of the building, down the hall from Mr. Bermans office.The unit is led by two office veterans, Russell Capone and Edward B. Diskant, and although line prosecutors shift in and out  one assistant who worked on the Cohen inquiry, Rachel Maimin, recently went into private practice, and another, Andrea M. Griswold, returned to work full time on securities cases  the unit has a deep bench.Two prosecutors who worked on the Cohen case, Thomas McKay and Nicolas Roos, remain in the unit. The investigations are overseen by the offices criminal division, which recently got a new chief, Laura G. Birger; she succeeded Lisa Zornberg, who left the office to return to private practice.Robert B. Fiske Jr., a former United States attorney in Manhattan who later served as the first independent counsel investigating the Whitewater matter during the Clinton administration, said the Southern District prosecutors would maintain the kind of professionalism associated with Mr. Muellers team.If the question is, should the public have confidence that there will be the same kind of integrity and independence in the Southern District of New York that there has been in the Mueller investigation, the answer is absolutely, Mr. Fiske said.Kenneth P. Vogel and Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting.Follow Ben Protess, William Rashbaum, Benjamin Weiser and Maggie Haberman on Twitter: @BenProtess @WRashbaum @BenWeiserNYT and @maggieNYTAdvertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning. The U.S. Senate is set to rebuke President Trump, a step toward a possible H.I.V. cure, and a successful return in Venezuela. Heres the latest: Senate Republicans are likely to contribute enough votes for approval of a House-passed measure that would undo President Trumps declaration of a national emergency for allocating money to his promised border wall. Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, conceded that he could not stop it. And Jerrold Nadler, a powerful House lawmaker, issued scores of demands for documents from Mr. Trumps cabinet, aides, businesses and associates, revealing a broad Democratic investigation into possible obstruction of justice, corruption and abuse of power by Mr. Trump and his administration.  Whats next: The topics covered by the requests include the firing of James Comey as F.B.I. director and Mr. Trumps apparent dangling of pardons and threatening of witnesses. Mr. Nadler could follow up with subpoenas to compel testimony, but those could be challenged in court. Though a Senate vote to overturn the state of national emergency is virtually certain to meet with a presidential veto, the stunning rebuke would signal that Mr. Trumps grip on his own party was weakening. It could also strengthen court challenges to the emergency declaration.For just the second time since the global epidemic began, a patient appears to have been cured of infection with H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS. Scientists had long tried to duplicate the procedure that led to the first long-term remission 12 years ago. And with the so-called London patient, they seem to have succeeded.This confirms that a cure for H.I.V. infection is possible, if difficult, researchers said. Both milestones resulted from bone-marrow transplants that were given to infected patients, but for treating cancer, not H.I.V.Prospects: Bone-marrow transplantation, a risky procedure, is unlikely to be a realistic treatment option in the near future. But researchers say they see a path opening to a possible cure. Meng Wanzhou, Huaweis chief financial officer and the daughter of the companys founder, has been staying at her luxurious six-bedroom house in Vancouver since being granted bail in December. And she has been allowed to go shopping or even travel to nearby Richmond, albeit while under surveillance.Her conditions contrast sharply with those of two Canadian men detained in China in apparent retaliation for Ms. Mengs arrest, a disparity that has touched on a nerve among Vancouver residents.The Chinese authorities on Monday accused both men of espionage, ratcheting up tensions between the two countries, just days before a Canadian court is set to begin a hearing on whether Ms. Meng should be extradited to the U.S., where she is wanted on fraud charges.In other Huawei news: The company is set to file a lawsuit against the American government for banning federal agencies from using the companys products, according to two people familiar with the matter. The case could undermine the Trump administrations campaign to shut out Huawei from the global market.Juan Guaid, the Venezuelan opposition leader, returned to the country this week after defying a travel ban, possibly setting up a showdown with President Nicols Maduro.We just got through passport control and will head where our people are! he posted on Twitter from an airport near Caracas, the capital.  Mr. Maduros government has said Mr. Guaid violated restrictions on his travel and could face arrest. But it may hold back and hope that protests simply peter out, an analyst in Caracas said. Response: As Mr. Guaid flew into the country, a number of European diplomats had come to Simn Bolvar Airport to offer their support. And on Twitter, John Bolton, President Trumps national security adviser, warned: Any threats or acts against his safe return will be met with a strong and significant response from the United States and the international community.Surveillance: The U.S. National Security Agency has shut down a system that analyzes logs of Americans domestic calls and texts, according to a senior Republican congressional aide, halting a program that was exposed by Edward Snowden in 2013.Climate change: A study found that marine heat waves  when sea temperatures are much higher than normal for at least five consecutive days  are happening more often than they did last century and threaten the framework of many underwater ecosystems. Tornadoes: Rescue workers in the U.S. rushed to search for survivors after a cluster of storms ripped through the Southeast, from Alabama into Florida and Georgia, killing at least 23 people. Denmark: The country has a pervasive rape culture and endemic impunity for rapists, according to an Amnesty International report. Danish law defines rape as an attack based on the use of violence rather than the absence of consent, and there are urgent calls to change that definition.Carlos Ghosn: A Tokyo court set bail at $9 million for the former auto executive, who faces charges in Japan of underreporting his income by more than $80 million. Prosecutors are expected to appeal.Arms control: Russia formally suspended its observance of a key nuclear arms treaty that the U.S. abandoned last month, setting the stage for the return of land-based nuclear missiles with relatively short ranges of 300 to 3,400 miles. The Vatican: Winning praise from academics and Jewish organizations, Pope Francis announced that in 2020 he would open the sealed archives from the World War II-era pontificate of Pius XII, allowing scholars to examine how the Vatican responded to Nazism and the Holocaust, a subject of deep controversy. Ted Baker: Ray Kelvin, the founder and chief executive of the British fashion chain, resigned after current and former employees accused him of inappropriate behavior, including trying to massage people in the office and asking employees for sex.Scotland: President Trump implied in a tweet that a golf course owned by the Trump Organization in Scotland, and that recently lost a court judgment, helps cement the U.S. relationship with Britain. His remark alarmed some legal and ethics experts. Michael Jackson: After the debut on Sunday of the first half of the HBO documentary Leaving Neverland, which includes allegations of sexual abuse against the pop star, Jacksons fans came out in full force with what they viewed as evidence exonerating the singer. The director of the documentary called them the Islamic State of fandom. The second half covers Jacksons legal troubles and his accusers decisions to come forward.T. rex: The dinosaur has helped foster a surge in paleontology over the last 20 years. Among the discoveries about the land predator were its size range (early tyrannosaurs were as small as chickens) and its short life span.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Celebrate Mardi Gras with beignets and a muffuletta.Traveling can wreak havoc on your fitness, but our experts suggest six products to help you work out on the road.Your collectibles, whether fine wines or shrunken heads, may be worth more than you think. Here are five ways to figure out the value of your assets.King cake is no ordinary cake. A Mardi Gras tradition, the circular pastry shines with stripes of sugared New Orleans Carnival colors: purple for justice, gold for power and green for faith.Its stuffed with fruit and pecans  and a plastic baby that brings luck to the finder (along with the responsibility of providing the next years cake).The notion of embedding an object in cake dates at least to the Roman Empire. For Saturnalia, a predecessor of Christmas, it was not a plastic baby but a fava bean. Whoever received the slice containing the bean ruled the day.But the Romans also associated fava beans with death. That might be because of a genetic disorder, most common in the Mediterranean, that creates an often lethal bean allergy.So perhaps eating a cake with a fava bean was a morbid joke, a moment on the edge, or what could be thought of as letting the good times roll.James K. Williamson wrote todays Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and heres our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"FeatureWhat happened to me? the senator asks. Not a damn thing.Senator Lindsey GrahamCreditCreditMark Peterson/Redux, for The New York TimesSupported byBy Mark LeibovichAs the luncheon dishes were placed down, the master of ceremonies kicked off a boisterous round of Lindsey Graham trivia. What is the senators middle name? she asked the ballroom of meatloaf-eating Republicans in Greenville, S.C. Whats the name of the bar the senators family owned?For those of you playing along at home, Lindsey Olin Graham grew up around his parents beer-and-pool joint, the Sanitary Cafe, in working-class Central, S.C., where he played the child mascot to the regulars. I was conscious, he wrote in his 2015 memoir, that I was giving a performance.When it came Grahams time to speak, he started out in this long-ingrained lounge-act mode. Im from the federal government; Im here to help, he said  a Ronald Reagan joke that has been Grahams preferred icebreaker for years. But after a few minutes of breezy repartee, his tone assumed an edge. To every Republican, if you dont stand behind this president, were not going to stand behind you, he said. As the room fell silent, Grahams voice grew soft, even grave. This is the defining moment of his presidency, he said. Its not just about a wall. Its about him being treated different than any other president.He continued: This is a fight between the people who are so smart and the rest of us. Heads bobbed over unfinished plates of function-room meat drowned in barbecue sauce. The continuing debate over the border wall, he went on, was not just over funding for a barrier, in the same way that the brawl over Brett Kavanaugh, whose Supreme Court appointment had been delayed over allegations of sexual assault, was not merely about a judge.Nothing of late has enhanced the senators standing as a Trump loyalist, or disgust with him among former Democratic collaborators, more than his showstopping speech at the September hearing where Christine Blasey Ford, a high school acquaintance of Kavanaughs, accused the future justice of sexually assaulting her at a party. What you want to do is destroy this guys life, Graham exploded at Senate Democrats, many of whom he had worked with closely for years. Senator Chris Coons, the Delaware Democrat, told me that his longtime colleague is hysterically funny and personally engaging. But the personal nature of Grahams outburst at the hearing left him stunned. It was unprecedented, Coons said, adding that he and Graham did not speak for several weeks afterward. I am still struggling to renew my working relationship with Senator Graham, he added.In Greenville, Graham framed the Kavanaugh melee as a proxy battle over President Trump  and placed himself on the Trumpian side of an us-versus-them divide. The Democrats and the national news media, he said, are engaged in a singular mission to thwart the president. Why? Cause they hate him, Graham said of Trump. They hate us, he added, and repeated the call: They hate us.It can be jarring to watch Graham enact, in real time, the broader shift the Republican Party has undergone under Trump. The conversions tend to fall into a few basic categories. There are the elected Republicans who once had little use for Trump but would prefer to keep their heads down and hope that their Trump-loving constituents forget the terrible things they said about the future president during the 2016 campaign. There are the Republican leaders, like Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader, and until recently Paul Ryan, the former speaker of the House, who might have little use for the president in private but cant risk alienating him. And there are once-dubious Republicans who have not only come around to supporting Trump but who have also caked their about-faces in ostentatious heaps of flattery for my president.And then there is Graham, who would seem to occupy his own distinct category of Trump-era contortionist. Certainly he embodies elements of the other groups: a desire to carve out his own parallel universe of work on certain issues that have always been important to him, especially on foreign policy; an instinct to avoid the distraction of weighing in on every Trump offense (Dont chase every barking dog, he says); and a personal library of readily surfaceable aggressions from the 2016 campaign, in which Graham called the future president a kook, crazy and unfit for office, among other things  and which are easily juxtaposed today with Grahams sycophantic raves about the presidents stellar golf game and reminders that Trump beat me like a dog in the 2016 presidential primary (no doubt delighting Trump with his nod to the presidents canine-themed pejoratives).Grahams rush to Trumps side is particularly baffling because not long ago, he was best known for his bipartisan deal-making on issues like climate change and immigration. He subscribed, at least theoretically, to the country-over-party credo of his departed Senate co-conspirator John McCain. McCains diagnosis of brain cancer and eventual death coincided approximately with Grahams emergence as Trumps most prominent Senate defender and whisperer. This combination of factors gave rise to the What happened to Lindsey Graham? question, which has become synonymous enough with the South Carolinians national political identity that he felt compelled to own it on the stump.What happened to me? Graham asked in Greenville. Not a damn thing. The crowd gave him a standing ovation.What did happen to Lindsey Graham? I raised the question directly to him the following afternoon in his Senate office in Washington. Graham was collapsed behind a cluttered desk, sipping a Coke Zero and complaining of exhaustion.Well, O.K., from my point of view, if you know anything about me, itd be odd not to do this, he said.I asked what this was. ?This,? Graham said, is to try to be relevant. Politics, he explained, was the art of what works and what brings desired outcomes. Ive got an opportunity up here working with the president to get some really good outcomes for the country, he told me.An outcome of particular interest to Graham, at the moment, is getting re-elected to a fourth Senate term in South Carolina, where Trump owns commanding approval numbers, especially among the hard-core Republicans who in the past questioned Grahams devotion to their conservative cause. Sure, Graham allowed, you might emphasize some things more than others when youre trying to appeal to the party base. You just showcase your issues, right? he said. During his last re-election campaign, in 2014, Graham asserted his base bona fides by railing against President Barack Obamas White House scumbags and warning that the world is literally about to blow up. He has always been conservative, he emphasized. But in our business, youre not defined by the 80 percent agreement. Youre defined by the 20 percent that the base might object to. (His relatively liberal position on immigration once led Rush Limbaugh to dub him Lindsey Grahamnesty.)transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Jessica Cheung, Clare Toeniskoetter, Theo Balcomb, Annie Brown and Lisa Tobin, and edited by Paige CowettThe South Carolina Republican was once a vehement Trump critic. Now, hes one of the presidents most ardent supporters.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, Im Michael Barbaro. This is The Daily. Today: Two years ago, he called Donald Trump a kook, a bigot, crazy and unfit for office. Now he lavishes praise on the president at every turn. What happened to Lindsey Graham? Its Tuesday, March 5.archived recording (speaker 1)I mean, you dont even know which way the wind is blowing with this guy.archived recording (speaker 2)Jeff Sessions.archived recording (speaker 1)Well, Im talking, actually, about Lindsey Graham.archived recording (speaker 2)Oh, yeah.archived recording (speaker 1)And who is he? [MUSIC]archived recording (speaker 3)I dont know what happened to the Lindsey Graham that I knew, because he hasnt been showing up lately.archived recording (speaker 4)He seems to be adrift morally, politically.archived recording (speaker 5)I think its mystifying to a lot of people. Its certainly mystifying to me.archived recording (speaker 6)What happened to Lindsey Graham, do you think?archived recording (speaker 7)Whats happened to Lindsey Graham?archived recording (speaker 8)I mean, what happened to Lindsey Graham?archived recording (speaker 9)What happened to Lindsey Graham?mark leibovichThe thing about Lindsey Graham is hes one of these figures in Washington that comes with kind of a non-verbal reaction at this point.michael barbaroMark Leibovich wrote about Graham for The New York Times Magazine.mark leibovichYou mention his name any time over the last six months to 12 months, and you get this combination grimace, shrug, follow-up question  yeah, whats going on? And in all the sort of Trump-era Republican mysteries, when we ask ourselves, what happened to this person, why is this person changing his or her mind so much now about Donald Trump, Lindsey Graham kind of is the signature mystery of the Trump era as far as what these conversions look like. Lindsey Graham grew up in a very small town in South Carolina, the town of Central, South Carolina. And his parents owned a bar there called the Sanitary Cafe. And not only did they own it, but they lived in an apartment right behind the bar. They shared a restroom with the patrons of the bar. And he went from there  he was the first member of his family to go to college. His parents died when he was in his early 20s. He joined the military. He eventually got into politics and then was elected to Congress and, eventually, was elected to the Senate, where, over the years, hes become known as kind of a reliable conservative, pretty partisan Republican.archived recording (lindsey graham)Im Lindsey Graham, and I approve this message.mark leibovichThrough the Bush years.archived recordingOpposed Obamacare from day one, voting against it.mark leibovichThrough the Obama years.archived recordingHe led the fight on Benghazi, demanding answers mark leibovichHe was known as someone who was a truth-teller within his caucus.archived recordingHes been a champion for our military, our veterans, and a fighter for South Carolina jobs.mark leibovichHe was seen, much like McCain was, as someone who you could have a conversation with, who you could deal with.archived recordingAll eyes on Lindsey Graham and another Democratic member trying to come up with some sort of bipartisan compromise.mark leibovichAnd really won a lot of bipartisan respect, a lot of respect across the aisles. Took on some pretty unpopular issues within his caucus.michael barbaroLike what?archived recording (lindsey graham)80 percent of the people would like to see these kids have a better life. 80 percent of the people would like to begin to fix our broken immigration system.mark leibovichImmigration.archived recording (lindsey graham)We wont be debating about the science. Well be debating about the solutions.mark leibovichClimate change. I mean, he was a big dealmaker. He, to this day, is remembered  and remembered is sort of a key word, because its very past tense  as someone who could speak some truth to power and someone who was seen as a reasonable independent conservative.archived recording (lindsey graham)Let me tell you about Senator McCain.mark leibovichAnd he also was like a sidekick, kind of the Gilligan to John McCains Skipper.archived recording (lindsey graham)He would die for this country. I love him to death.mark leibovichHe was always at his side. The two of them had sort of similar senses of humor.archived recording (john mccain)The reason why Lindsey is not married is because he cant find anyone that loves him as much as he does. [LAUGHTER]mark leibovichAnd was always, again, very derivative of the energy that John McCain brought to everything that John McCain did. So, 2015.archived recording (john mccain)Im Lindsey Graham, and Im running for president of the United States.mark leibovichLindsey Graham decides hes going to run for president.archived recording (donald trump)You know, he lost. So I never liked him as much after that, because I dont like losers.mark leibovichAnd right out of the gates, Donald Trump insults John McCain.archived recording (donald trump)He was not a war hero.archived recordingHes a war hero.archived recording (donald trump)He is a war hero archived recordingFive and a half years archived recording (donald trump)Hes a war hero because he was captured. I like people that werent captured, O.K.? I hate to tell you.mark leibovichHe was asked, is John McCain a hero? And Donald Trump said, no, hes not. I like people who werent captured.archived recording (lindsey graham)I dont need a poll to tell Donald Trump its not good to say that John McCain is a loser because he was captured in a time of war.mark leibovichLindsey Graham, as John McCains best friend, was extremely  took great umbrage at this.archived recording (lindsey graham)I dont care if he drops out. Stay in the race, just stop being a [expletive].mark leibovichCalled Trump  I think it was a [expletive].archived recording (donald trump)Today, I got called a [expletive] by this guy. Then I said to myself, hey, didnt this guy call me, like, four years ago? Yes.mark leibovichDonald Trump then, at a campaign event, decided to archived recording (donald trump)I wrote the number down. I dont know if its the right number. Lets try it. 202 mark leibovichYell out Lindsey Grahams cell phone number, which, to my memory, has never been done before in American politics. Predictably, the crank calls, the threats commenced immediately on Lindsey Grahams cell phone.archived recording (lindsey graham)I think hes a kook. I think hes crazy. I think hes unfit for office.mark leibovichSo the phone thing happens. The relationship did not improve over the course of the campaign.archived recording (lindsey graham)Hes a race-baiting, xenophobic, religious bigot.mark leibovichTo say the least. And then even when Donald Trump was elected, even when he became president, Lindsey Graham and John McCain were still none too happy with the fact that Donald Trump was president. They kind of held their powder for a while. They werent terribly vocal. But there were certain occasions where Lindsey Graham was actually quite vocal and really wasnt trying to hide his feelings at all. After the Charlottesville demonstration and ultimately murder archived recording (lindsey graham)If I were president of the United States and these people showed sympathy toward me and my agenda, it would bother me. And I would urge the president to dissuade them of the fact that hes sympathetic to their cause.mark leibovich Lindsey Graham was extremely outspoken about how the president should not have spoken out seemingly in favor of the white nationalists.archived recording (lindsey graham)Because their cause is hate. It is un-American. They are domestic terrorists. And we need more from our president on this issue.mark leibovichAnd also about the summer later, when Donald Trump and President Putin had that joint press conference in Helsinki, and the president seemed to side with President Putin over the conclusion of his own intelligence that Russia meddled with the election of 2016.archived recording (lindsey graham)Hes misjudging Putin. I dont think he was prepared as well as he should have been.mark leibovichLindsey Graham was not shy at all about speaking out.archived recording (lindsey graham)This was a missed opportunity. We reinforced a narrative thats bad for us as a nation. It came across weak.mark leibovichBut then something weird happened. [MUSIC]archived recording (lindsey graham)I am, like, the happiest dude in America right now. Weve got a president and a national security team that Ive been dreaming of for eight years. I like the president. I want to help him. I hope hes successful. Hes been a friend to me. President Trump has the smarts and the moral courage to listen to his generals. I am all in. Keep it up, Donald. Im sure youre watching. President Trump deserves the Nobel Peace Prize and then some. If you dont like me working with President Trump to make the world a better place, I dont give a shit.mark leibovichSo thats why people are asking what happened to Lindsey Graham, and I was asking it myself. I mean, I dont think there was a sharper pivot from vehemently anti-Trump to enthusiastically pro-Trump more so than Lindsey Graham within the Republican Party. So I decided that I would spend some time with Lindsey Graham and see if I could ask him enough questions that maybe he could shed some light on this for me.mark leibovich (to lindsey graham)Senator.lindsey grahamHey, man.mark leibovichGood to see you, man.lindsey grahamPull up a chair.michael barbaroSo, Mark, where did you start your conversation with Graham?mark leibovich (to lindsey graham)So I figured Id start with this.mark leibovichI asked Lindsey Graham how he was getting along without John McCain.lindsey grahamI miss John. I miss him a lot.mark leibovichI mean, I hadnt seen him since John McCain had passed away, which wouldve been in August.lindsey grahamI still, on occasion, want to pick up the phone and call him. So it was a relationship that was like a political marriage.mark leibovichAnd he said he was doing O.K. He misses him. He thinks about him all the time.lindsey grahamHe loved the contest. He loved being relevant. He kept himself relevant.mark leibovichBut from there, he jumped immediately to how John McCain made him feel, which was relevant.lindsey grahamYeah, and I like being relevant. And the way you stay relevant is you stay engaged. Theres a lot of space here to take on tough issues, because most people shy away from them.mark leibovichSo Lindsey Graham said, John and I were relevant together. I mean, it was, like, were sharing a meal together. Were sharing a value system together, and that value system was relevance. And I was confused by the word. I said, what do you mean by that? And he said, relevant is like, in the middle of everything. Relevant is youre making a difference.lindsey grahamIt means that during the time in which you possess political influence and power, you use it.mark leibovichJohn McCain was always surrounded by an entourage. He was always surrounded by cameras. He was always surrounded by a sense that because John McCain was there, something momentous was happening. And Lindsey Graham, by virtue of residency in that orbit, was able to reap that also.michael barbaroAnd so how does Graham explain to you how his relationship with Trump develops and how this evolution kind of lands with him having a relationship with Trump?lindsey graham opponent, and I was calling Trump a race-baiting, religious mark leibovichOh, I heard everything.lindsey graham xenophobic, and mark leibovichDid you mean that when you said that stuff about Trump?lindsey grahamYeah. I didnt vote for him. I thought his campaign was mark leibovichYou didnt vote for him in the general?lindsey grahamNo.mark leibovichWhod you vote for?lindsey grahamI voted for Evan whatever-the-guys-name-is [INAUDIBLE] walked in the door.mark leibovichThat dude.lindsey grahamBut I lost. I mean, the people have spoken. So, O.K., lets see how we can help this guy be a good president.mark leibovichI think he knew intuitively that he needed to build a relationship fairly quickly, in part because of political realities in South Carolina and the fact of his re-election coming up in 2020. But lindsey grahamI didnt call him. So he called me about six weeks after, and he said, lets talk.mark leibovichDonald Trump sort of short-circuited the process by calling him first.lindsey grahamHe says, I dont have your phone number. And I said, theres a reason for that. And he laughed.michael barbaroBecause I had to throw it out, because you ruined it.mark leibovichYes. And then lindsey grahamThen he took me to the place right off the Oval Office, and we had lunch. And we talked for an hour. And he really seemed to care what I think, what I thought. And he said, I know weve had our differences, but Id like you to help me. I said, Ill be glad to help you where I can, Mr. President. I want you to be successful.mark leibovichDo you like him on a superficial, like, we golf together, we have a little rapport level?lindsey grahamNo. Let me tell you this, thats whats changed.mark leibovichSo you feel a genuine lindsey grahamWell, so  I dont want to be Sigmund Freud. Hes got a tough job.mark leibovichSure.lindsey grahamI mean, he doesnt have a whole group of old friends.mark leibovichRight.lindsey grahamThe guy is president of the United States. This stuff is coming at him at Mach 2 and 3. He feels completely under siege from the Mueller stuff. And he is trying to navigate all the things that come with being Donald Trump. But there is a side to him that  Im pulling for him now. Does that make sense?mark leibovichWere you before?lindsey grahamNo.mark leibovichLike, meaning  give me a time frame.lindsey grahamI think its been the last year.mark leibovichReally? O.K.lindsey grahamYeah.michael barbaroWell, so what actually happens in the past year between Lindsey Graham and President Trump that explains this?mark leibovichTheyre spending a lot of time together.lindsey grahamIve never been called this much by a president in my life.mark leibovichWhats that like?lindsey grahamIts weird, and its flattering.mark leibovichAnd the time theyre spending together, the votes Lindsey Graham is casting for the Trump agenda.lindsey grahamThe judges have been good. The tax cuts, deregulation, all has worked. Hes rebuilt the military.mark leibovichWhether on tax reform, whether on repealing the Affordable Care Act  that was both in 2017, but into 2018 on foreign policy.lindsey grahamIm hoping through him that we can do some things in North Korea that maybe we couldnt have done otherwise.mark leibovichLindsey Graham has certainly ascended to the role of one of Donald Trumps two or three closest advisers on the Hill. The backdrop to this, though, is that Lindsey Grahams best friend, John McCain, is going through a very, very public, difficult illness. And Donald Trump basically didnt let up at all. He was still criticizing John McCain for his vote against the Affordable Care Act repeal of 2017. But also, John McCain, through his office, even through his illness, was not shy about criticizing Donald Trump for things like Helsinki, Charlottesville. And Donald Trump was not one to let this lie and was going to bash John McCain right back. So you had this situation where Lindsey Graham and the president were becoming very close and public friends, whereas John McCain was dying a very, very slow and tragic and public death. So I think people began to ask this question, what was going on with Lindsey Graham, in maybe a more personal framework, because John McCain and he were known to be so close, and John McCain, obviously, was very sick.michael barbaroAnd I wonder, did you ask Graham about how McCain felt about this developing relationship between Graham and Trump, considering their past and McCains place in it?mark leibovichYeah, I did.lindsey grahamHeres what I told John. Hes president, and Ive seen you, once the election was over, embrace people.mark leibovichSure.lindsey grahamAnd thats what I admired the most about you. If you could go to Vietnam and forgive them, anybody could. If you could work with Obama, anybody could. And I want to stay in this guys orbit.mark leibovichSo in a way, youre reminding John McCain of his own example, but also appealing to the ego that John McCain obviously had in very, very high measure.michael barbaroAnd do you know if McCain essentially blessed this or said, I understand, Lindsey?mark leibovichI dont think he blessed it. I think thats probably too strong. But I think John McCain as well as anyone understands politics. Also, look, he had other things to worry about. He was dying. He was sort of getting his legacy and his affairs in order. He was not at his best in the last year of his life when he was battling brain cancer and so forth.lindsey grahamSo what Ive done for Trump is I dont think inconsistent with what Ive done with others. But heres the difference. Its more important, and hes receptive.mark leibovichSo John McCain passes away in August. And then just a few weeks later, you had the crescendo of the Brett Kavanaugh hearings. I mean, we all remember a very, very powerful day where there was a sense for about maybe two-thirds of the day that Justice Kavanaugh was in real trouble, that Dr. Fords story was extremely compelling. Then all of a sudden, Republicans on the committee were speaking, and Lindsey Graham gave this real show-stopping speech.archived recording (lindsey graham)This is the most unethical sham since Ive been in politics. And if you really wanted to know the truth, you sure as hell wouldnt have done what youve done to this guy.mark leibovichThat at the moment, people thought might have really changed the momentum of this thing.archived recording (lindsey graham)Boy, you all want power. God, I hope you never get it.michael barbaroRight. In which he essentially assails the Democratic members of the committee for basically being power-hungry and soulless.mark leibovichPower-hungry and smearing and ruining Brett Kavanaughs life.mark leibovich (to lindsey graham)Did you feel like in any way you had an audience in the White House?lindsey grahamNo.mark leibovichThere was not an audience lindsey grahamI was pissed at everybody on the other side.mark leibovichGenuinely.lindsey grahamIt was just like, O.K., I voted for your guys. Whats going on here? I was furious for the way the guy was treated. Ive had a very fixed view about the law. I mean, thats been my link. And I just think I dont want to ruin the judiciary because we cant get along up here.mark leibovichIt was a very pitched and partisan setting, obviously. I think the collateral damage there is what it did to his reputation across the aisle, which has not been repaired yet. But in a sense, that sort of played to some very, very strong suits that Lindsey Graham had, beginning with being something that was delightful to the president of the United States and his base.lindsey grahamThe thing I like about the president is that he has allowed me in that space. And after Kavanaugh, its even been more.mark leibovichI can imagine, yeah.lindsey grahamHe likes a fire.michael barbaroAfter the Kavanaugh hearings, I think the question that everybody has on some low level about what happened to Graham is now the question were all openly asking  what happened to Lindsey Graham? So did you actually pose that question?mark leibovichYes, I did.mark leibovich (to lindsey graham)You seem a little sick and tired of the whats happening to Lindsey Graham? question.lindsey grahamYeah. Its just like, yeah, O.K. Nothing, from my point of view. If you know anything about me, itd be odd for me not to do this.mark leibovichNow what is this? To work with him, or lindsey grahamThis is to try to be relevant.mark leibovichTry to be relevant.mark leibovich (to michael barbaro)In a sense, he uses the notion of relevance as a catch-all.mark leibovichBut to what end? I mean, because youre lindsey grahamTo the ends, to the objectives that I want.mark leibovich (to michael barbaro)Look, the uncharitable way of describing this would be opportunism. The charitable way of saying this would be influence. And the fact is, one of the central dynamics of Washington, circa 2019, circa the Trump administration, is that never has the decision point been so wrapped up in the mercurialness of one single person as it is right now in Donald Trumps orbit. And Lindsey Graham has made himself a part of that orbit. Now, it might not last beyond next week. It might not last beyond his re-election. Who knows where this is going to end? Lindsey Graham posed that question himself to me. But for now, he seems to think its very, very advantageous for him politically.michael barbaroBut I want to linger on that word opportunism, because if you look at the chronology, one view  and perhaps its the most cynical view  is that Lindsey Graham, in the name of relevance, attached himself to the biggest star in Republican politics for a very long time, and that was Senator John McCain. And then when Senator John McCain declines and ultimately dies, Lindsey Graham looks for the next biggest star to attach himself to, and that happens to be Donald Trump. And so despite the fact that these two men disdain each other and represent very different sides of the Republican Party, the constant is Lindsey Graham seeking out the star.mark leibovichIt is. And at one point, I just sort of blurted out, do you trust him? Meaning the president. And it took him a while to answer. He seemed taken aback by that. And what he said was, I trust him to want to be successful  which is kind of a non-answer. I mean, what president doesnt want to be successful, right? I mean, I think if I were to ask him, do you trust John McCain, he would say, I trust John McCain to love America and to always do what is right for America and to always work for a cause greater than himself. I remember asking him at one point, do you think Donald Trump believes in a cause greater than himself? And he said something to the effect that, well, Donald Trumps a showman. Hes a larger-than-life figure. He wants to be successful. Look, there are a lot of people who say, Lindsey, you know better. How can you live with yourself? What are you doing? And he couches it in the virtue of, look, I believe very strongly in certain things around Syria, around Afghanistan, around judges.lindsey grahamThat it is about outcomes, that Ive got an opportunity up here working with the president to get some outcomes that could be really good for the country and I think, from my point of view, good for the world.mark leibovichBeing relevant to Donald Trump, being in his orbit, helps me influence the things that I think are good for our country. And then mark leibovich (to lindsey graham)And good for your re-election.mark leibovichI cynically said, and also good for Lindsey Grahams re-election.lindsey grahamYeah. I mean, if you dont want to get re-elected, youre in the wrong business.mark leibovichHe sort of glibly said, well, if you dont want to be re-elected, youre in the wrong business. I mean, this question of what is going on with Lindsey Graham is so present around him, its come to define him so much, that he felt completely at home even raising the question rhetorically on the stump in South Carolina.lindsey grahamCan you see me? [LAUGHTER] Think Im getting taller, and you guys are getting smaller.mark leibovichThere was a Republican lunch we went to in Greenville, where he was saying lindsey grahamWhats happened to Lindsey Graham?mark leibovichWhat happened to me? And he said it twice. And he said lindsey grahamWhats happened to Lindsey Graham? Not a damn thing. Nothing.mark leibovichNot a damn thing. And people kind of nodded knowingly. And what he was doing was sort of owning the question. He was sort of taking it as a part of his political identity. But at the same time, he was being defiant about it, too. And he kept talking about how, look, all the smart people in Washington, they hate us. The people in the media, they hate us. They hate him, him being Donald Trump. Essentially, its sort of an old populist refrain, which is they dont  they look down on our way of life. Literally the next day in his office in Washington, he was talking about how you showcase your issues. This is what you do when youre running for re-election. He was michael barbaroHe was being one of the smart guys.mark leibovichHe was becoming one of the smart people. He was talking to me, wise guy to wise guy. And he was essentially giving away the game, as if his Senate office in Washington and a luncheon hall in Greenville, South Carolina were completely different worlds that have nothing to do with each other.michael barbaroAnd it sounds like at the end of the day, he is being honest in the sense that nothing did happen to him. He is the same guy.mark leibovichYeah, heres the thing. I was pretty struck by how honest, how candid he was in talking about what his game was, what he was doing. Him explicitly saying, you showcase your issues, meaning you say certain things when youre running for re-election, essentially.michael barbaroTo certain audiences.mark leibovichTo certain audiences. He said facetiously  but not really facetiously  you recall that in 2010, John McCain turned himself into the most conservative senator in the Senate when he was running for re-election in 2010. That was the re-election when John McCain sort of tried to disassociate himself with the term maverick, when, in fact, two years earlier, he had based his entire presidential campaign about being a maverick. People at that point were asking, whats going on with John McCain? So I think, in a sense, he was pointing out the synergy between his hero eight years ago and what he was going through today. But again, thats a pretty transparent way of looking at and describing what is happening to someone when they are essentially doing political contortions. [MUSIC] Lindsey Graham is, one, a good politician, two, someone who is fully aware of what the political reality is for him as a conservative or someone who wants to be re-elected in a very conservative state and a very conservative party, and is someone who knows very much how Washington works.michael barbaroThat hes up front about what this is and what it isnt and the degree to which this is an opportunistic transactional relationship.mark leibovichYeah, he would call it politics.michael barbaroMark, thank you very much.mark leibovichThank you, Michael. Great to be with you.lindsey graham[APPLAUSE] Thank you very, very much. Wow. Wow. I came to the right place.michael barbaroOver the weekend, Lindsey Graham spoke at the annual gathering of the Conservative Political Action Conference, where he once again praised President Trump and boasted about their close relationship.lindsey grahamAnd I couldnt be more proud of the fact that he talks to me, and he asks my opinion. And weve got a lot in common now. I like him, and he likes him. [LAUGHTER] So go figure.Graham reminded me that when McCain was facing re-election in 2010, he turned himself into the most conservative member of the U.S. Senate. That was the race in which McCain claimed that he never embraced the maverick label, and people were asking, What happened to John McCain? Graham chuckled at the memory.In acknowledging this, Graham was speaking to me as a fellow creature of Washington, fully versed in the election-year showcasing he is now engaged in  one of the people who are so smart that he derided the day before. If you dont want to get re-elected, youre in the wrong business, he said.Graham would shortly head over to the Capitol for Trumps State of the Union address, about which the president called him a few hours earlier, seeking input. Should I go conciliatory or to-hell-with-it? Trump asked him, according to Graham. What kind of tone should I take? In recounting this latest exchange, Graham shook his head and half shrugged. I have never been called this much by a president in my life, he told me. His tone reflected a mixture of amazement and amusement, with perhaps a dash of awe. Its weird, and its flattering, and it creates some opportunity. It also creates some pressure.Graham has always gravitated toward larger-than-life figures. He worshiped his father and followed him everywhere. I came along late in my dads life, and he made the most of our time together, Graham wrote in his memoir, My Story. Whatever he did, he did it with me.Grahams parents died when he was in his early 20s, and he legally adopted his younger sister, Darline. He never married or had children of his own, which has forced him throughout his career to deflect the inevitable insinuations that arise about a 63-year-old bachelor in the United States Senate. Graham says he has dated numerous women over the years, but he usually lands on some variation of the married-to-my-job explanation for his lack of a partner. In the same way that he described the regulars of the Sanitary Cafe as members of his extended family growing up, Graham has relied on the Senate as a kind of surrogate brood in his adulthood.Grahams Senate colleagues sometimes describe him as a kind of sitcom sidekick with a knack for finding himself in goofy situations. It struck many people who know him as particularly apt that Trump, as a presidential candidate in 2015, would decide to yell out Grahams cellphone number at a campaign event after Graham called Trump a jackass. Kelly Ayotte, the former Republican senator from New Hampshire, recalls Grahams tagging along around this time to see Despicable Me with her and her son, Jacob, who was 8. As they entered the theater, Graham handed his constantly buzzing phone over to Jacob for screening. He said to the callers: Who are you? Why are you calling him?? Ayotte told me. Graham would later make a video dramatizing all the ways to destroy a cellphone. After their eventual dtente, he told Trump that the entire episode was the highlight of my campaign.Nearly every Graham story of the last two decades involves McCain. When you enter the waiting area at NBCs Meet the Press, there is a framed photo of McCain and Graham sitting together on the set, like a portrait of the extended family of the Washington green room. They were inseparable, Susan Collins, the Republican senator from Maine, told me. Johns death really left a hole in his heart. It seemed like Lindsey had lost a father.Graham, who served in the United States Air Force and the South Carolina Air National Guard, likens McCain less to a father figure than to an older brother, or perhaps commanding officer. What I miss was the collaboration, Graham said. It was a political marriage.I asked Graham if his collaboration with Trump, such as it was, was in any way akin to a political marriage. Oh, gosh, no, he said. I personally like him. We play golf. Hes very nice to me.Grahams contempt for Trump in the 2016 campaign was such that he could not bring himself to support the Republican nominee. I voted for Evan  whatever the guys name is, Graham said, referring to the third-party candidate Evan McMullin, who wound up winning 0.54 percent of the popular vote. But after Trump became president, Graham said, forging a relationship with him served his conjoined interests of staying relevant in Washington and getting re-elected in South Carolina. Graham told me that McCain understood his willingness to make peace with Trump, though the extent of Grahams ingratiation bothered him a bit  especially Grahams over-the-top praise for Trumps golfing abilities.But McCain, more than anyone, knew the value of reconciliation. Like Graham, he was a mostly reliable Republican vote in the Senate and supported Trumps agenda on most issues besides repealing the Affordable Care Act. Aside from McCain, Graham said, I never met anyone in my whole life that could hold a grudge and move on at the same time. And McCain, he said, understood better than anyone that few things are more potent in politics than having access to a president, regardless of which one.Relevance, Graham said, returning to the word as if it were a mantra. That was John McCains word.The price of relevance, for Graham, has been a willingness to defend the president on television and speak out on issues that he knows might be of minor consequence in the scheme of things but clearly animate Trump. In recent weeks, for instance, Graham  in his capacity as chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee  has demanded a briefing on such Fox News snack food as whether the F.B.I. acted with too heavy a hand in its arrest of the longtime Trump political adviser Roger Stone. Graham also vowed to investigate a claim made by Andrew McCabe, the former deputy director of the F.B.I., that top Department of Justice officials had discussed circumstances in which Trump could be removed from office via the 25th Amendment. An administrative coup, Graham said ominously on CBSs Face the Nation.When I asked Graham whether he ever worried about being seen as a toady to Trump, his voice assumed a slightly clipped edge. No, heres what I worry about, he told me. That were going to get it wrong in Syria and Afghanistan. I worry more about the policy stuff. And I have more influence than Ive ever had.Graham credits his relationship with Trump with the presidents slowing down his decision to withdraw from Syria. He noted that Trump asked him whether the United States should use force in Venezuela. Graham said that he preached caution and that Trump became exasperated, or pretended to be. He said to me, You want to invade everywhere except where I want to invade,? Graham said, laughing. And Trump, he insisted, knew where he stood on the special counsels Russia investigation. I told the president that if you colluded with the Russians, if your campaign sat down and worked with foreign intelligence operatives to manipulate the results of the election, thatd be the end of us,  Graham said.Graham says he has achieved graduating levels of relevance with Trump. I went from, O.K., hes president to How can I get to be in his orbit?? orbit is another favorite Graham word  to How can I have a say in whats going to happen today, tomorrow and next week?? he told me.I asked Graham if he considered himself part of the wider Trump orbit or the more select one. Well, Im getting into the smaller orbit now, he said. I asked him who else was in that precinct of the Trump solar system. He mentioned Melania, Ivanka, Jared. Hes got a bunch of old friends that still have a say, New York types, Graham said. But the circle is small.Trump is an entertainer and an agitator, which Graham says he can relate to, in a way. The point with Trump is, hes in on the joke, Graham said. I asked Graham if he is in on the joke, too. Oh, 100 percent, 100 percent. He laughed. Oh, people have no idea. I asked him to explain the joke to me. If you could go to dinner with us.   he said, shaking his head.At the end of our second interview, in mid-February, I asked Graham if he trusted Trump. Grahams eyes seemed to bulge for a split second. He sat back in his chair and paused. Thats a good question, he told me.He paused some more. Do I trust him? he said at last. I trust the president to want to be successful, he said. The presidents mercurialness, he acknowledged, could be a problem. He will change his mind in a New York minute, Graham said. You never know where hell be. I mean, I woke up one day, and were pulling out of Syria.But to this point, he and Trump have been able to work together. Hes asked me to do some things, and Ive asked him to do some things in return, Graham said. Then, as if looking wistfully over his shoulder at his old maverick-sidekick days, he offered, Theres sort of a Don Quixote aspect to this. It was an odd thing for a man who was espousing the median Republican-circa-2019 position to say.At the intersection of all this theater is that he wants to be a successful president, Graham said of Trump, and I want him to be successful under terms that I think are good for the country. Understood, but unspoken, was that these terms would also be good for Lindsey Graham.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Stacey SolieOAKLAND, Calif.  Senator Kamala Harris of California officially kicked off her campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination on Sunday at an outdoor rally where she warned that the nation and the world were at an inflection point in history and called on all Americans to speak truth about whats happening in the Trump era.Before a crowd that her advisers estimated at more than 20,000 people, Ms. Harris threaded together a biography from her years in the Bay Area with her work as a prosecutor and a senator, and set those details against a broader populist vision about running to be president of the people, by the people and for all people.[Follow the Democratic presidential field with our new candidate tracker]Ms. Harris, 54, who became the second black woman to serve in the United States Senate when she took office in 2017, has joined an increasingly crowded field of Democratic candidates that lacks a front-runner. The pack is the most diverse in history, with Ms. Harris among four women currently serving in the Senate or House who are now running for the Democratic nomination.In her remarks and at other recent events, she stressed unity and fighting for people, and her support for policies that are currently popular among Democrats, like Medicare for all and combating climate change. But she also laid out a vision of America and cast the 2020 election as a historic one.We are at an inflection point in the history of our world, she said at the rally in downtown Oakland. We are at an inflection point in the history of our nation. We are here because the American dream and our American democracy are under attack and on the line like never before. And we are here at this moment in time because we must answer a fundamental question: Who are we? Who are we as Americans?When we have leaders who bully and attack a free press and undermine our democratic institutions, thats not our America, she said. When white supremacists march and murder in Charlottesville or massacre innocent worshipers in a Pittsburgh synagogue, thats not our America. When we have children in cages crying for their mothers and fathers, dont you dare call that border security, thats a human rights abuse!Ms. Harris spoke of an America where we welcome refugees and denounced President Trumps border wall plan as a medieval vanity project.Ms. Harris also pledged: If I have the honor of being your president I will tell you this: I am not perfect. Lord knows, I am not perfect. But I will always speak with decency and moral clarity and treat all people with dignity and respect. I will lead with integrity. And I will tell the truth.Among those at the rally were Lyndsey Schlax, 38, a school administrator, who attended with her husband and two sons.Ive been a big fan of Kamala for a long time, said Ms. Schlax, who wore a Phenomenal Woman T-shirt that she said was produced by a relative of Ms. Harriss. I like how shes not afraid to be strong.Violet Sinnarkar, 20, from San Jose, who is currently a junior at the University of California-Berkeley, said many people she knew on campus were not fans of Harris. They think shes a cop, Ms. Sinnarkar said about Ms. Harriss years as district attorney of San Francisco and some past remarks praising law enforcement.But Ms. Sinnarkar said she came with an open mind: Im here to hear what she has to say.While Ms. Harriss work as a prosecutor has drawn some criticism, she sought to frame her record as focused on helping regular people.In my whole life, Ive only had one client: the people. And fighting for the people meant fighting on behalf of survivors of sexual assault. A fight not just against predators, but a fight against silence and stigma, she said.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe House voted overwhelmingly to block President Trumps threat to quit the Atlantic alliance. The Senate should promptly follow suit.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.The idea that the United States could withdraw from NATO is surreal. The alliance, now numbering 29 countries, has been the foundation of trans-Atlantic stability and prosperity for seven decades. It continues to keep a predatory Russia at bay and diminish the danger that American soldiers might once again have to fight on European soil.Yet in Donald Trumps go-it-alone presidency, the possibility of Americas withdrawal has become such a concern that Congress is taking steps to prevent it.The Democratic-led House on Jan. 22 voted 357-22 for a bipartisan bill that would tie Mr. Trumps hands by refusing him any federal money to pay the costs of leaving the alliance.The Republican-led Senate should quickly follow, either approving the House measure or a separate bill proposed by a bipartisan group of senators that requires Mr. Trump to obtain approval from two-thirds of the Senate to suspend, terminate or withdraw U.S. membership in NATO. If the president refused to abide by a Senate vote preserving NATO membership, the bill would then prohibit the use of federal funds for withdrawal.It seems obvious that leaving NATO would be a foreign policy debacle, eroding American influence in Europe and emboldening Vladimir Putin, the Russian leader, who wants to weaken NATO so he can expand his political and military sway.Despite all that, there is no sign that Mitch McConnell, the Senate majority leader, would stop such a move if Mr. Trump were to make it, as he has repeatedly threatened to do. Mr. Trumps own skepticism has long been apparent. He has questioned the alliances purpose and hectored the allies to pay more for defense. Spending has risen, but it also rose under Mr. Trumps predecessors, who urged greater military spending but never wavered in their commitment to NATO.Now the threat is growing: Several times last year, the president privately told senior administration officials that he wanted to withdraw from NATO, viewing it as a drain on the United States.Wisely, his national security team, especially then-Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, stopped him. But Mr. Mattis recently resigned with a parting rebuke about the importance of alliances. While Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and John Bolton, the national security adviser, are viewed as NATO supporters, neither has shown the sort of backbone Mr. Mattis did. An ominous sign was Mr. Pompeos recent Fox News interview in which he was asked if the United States would send soldiers to defend NATO member Montenegro. Mr. Pompeo replied, Im not going to get into hypotheticals. Except its not a hypothetical. Under the treatys Article 5, NATO members pledge to defend fellow members if they are attacked.Can the Trump administration be counted on or not? The president has already pulled out of the Paris Agreement on climate change and the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement, and he is threatening to ditch the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty. Whether lawmakers have the power or the spine to override or prevent a decision by Mr. Trump to end the nations NATO commitments remains an open question. Many legal scholars say he can pull out of treaties unilaterally without Congresss consent, but others say Congress has made clear that NATO is different. Its time for Congress to pre-empt any possible debate about this question.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.) Good morning. We look at President Xi Jinpings quest to absorb Taiwan, the U.S. Congresss first day back and a 300-mile human chain in India. Heres the latest:The Chinese leader called Taiwans autonomy a wound to the Chinese nation and demanded greater progress in Beijings decades-long quest to win control of the disputed island.Details: Mr. Xi gave Taiwan two options: He could use military force if the self-ruled territory grasped for independence, or he could offer a one country, two systems deal, similar to the framework used in Hong Kong. But the president didnt lay down a timetable for either path.Reaction: People in Taiwan are unlikely to be receptive to Mr. Xis offer, especially as they watch Beijing squeeze Hong Kongs political freedoms.Context: China and Taiwan have been in conflict over the islands status since 1949, when forces defeated by Mao Zedong retreated to the island. Tensions increased when the island moved to democratic elections in the 1990s. Today, only 3 percent of Taiwans population favors immediate unification with China, according to a recent survey.Democrats will take control of the House of Representatives when it reconvenes today, representing the first taste of a split government during the Trump era.Details: The U.S. government has been partly shut down for nearly two weeks after a legislative impasse over funding for a border wall.What to watch for: President Trump has invited congressional leaders of both parties to a briefing on border security. Representative Nancy Pelosi, who is likely to be elected speaker today, has said the wall cant be part of any deal to reopen the government.Kim Jong-un said on Tuesday that he was willing to hold a second summit meeting with President Trump, but he added that if international sanctions werent lifted, the North would have no choice but to return to nuclear confrontation.We will not make nuclear weapons and we will not proliferate nuclear weapons, Mr. Kim said. But he added that it wont be good if the U.S. didnt make corresponding measures.Details: Progress between the U.S. and North Korea hinges on the definition of denuclearization. For the U.S., that means the North giving up its entire arsenal. For North Korea, it also includes a reciprocal pullback of Americas ability to threaten the country with nuclear weapons.Analysis: Mr. Kim has essentially returned to where things stood when Mr. Trump took office, indicating that their meeting in Singapore in June altered the optics of their relationship more than the reality, writes our national security correspondent.Two women in the southern Indian state of Kerala sneaked into a centuries-old Hindu shrine that has long barred women of childbearing age.Context: In October, Indias Supreme Court ruled that the ban on women entering the temple was unconstitutional. Since then, women trying to set foot in the shrine have been pushed back by mobs shouting in their faces and hurling stones.Why it matters: This recent development in Kerala was part of a broader movement for equality in the country. Hours before the women entered the temple, an estimated five million people formed a 300-mile-long human chain protesting gender inequality.Reaction: The news was met with protests across the state. The police moved relatives of one of the women to a safe house, local news media reported. And a Hindu priest shut down the temple for purification rituals.But one officer stationed near the temple said the two women, whose names were given only as Bindu and Kanakadurga, were real heroines.U.S.-China trade talks: As negotiations seeking to reach a deal by March 2 begin, we take a look at the U.S. trade representative Robert Lighthizer, a China skeptic who wants to keep an anxious president from making a hasty compromise to calm the markets.Markets: The new year started on a down note, as shares on Wall Street tumbled at the start of trading, following declines in Europe and Asia, but rose later in the day.Tesla: The auto company reported a 15 percent increase in quarterly production but also announced a price cut for all models, which could suggest softer demand.Censorship factories: Our New New World columnist takes an inside look at Chinese companies whose thousands of low-wage workers help the government monitor and scrub content online.Birth tourism: Chinese mothers choosing to give birth in Canada to get citizenship for their babies are facing growing opposition in the country, with some Canadians calling the legal practice unethical.Cultural Revolution: The Chinese photographer Li Zhensheng has been on a decades-long mission to make his country remember the decade when up to 1.5 million died, according to some estimates. Now hes published a Chinese-language book of his photographs from the 1960s.Moon landing: The Chinese spacecraft Change-4 will make the first-ever attempt to land on the far side of the moon today. [BBC]Ultima Thule: A NASA spacecraft successfully completed a flyby of that small, icy world  the most distant object in space ever explored.Saudi Arabia: Netflix blocked an episode of Hasan Minhajs talk show from streaming in the kingdom after the Saudi government complained that the program, in which the comedian criticized Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, violated its cybercrime laws.Qatar: The predominantly Muslim country imposed a 100 percent tax on alcohol, effectively doubling the cost of imported beverages in an attempt to restrict consumption.Russia: More than two dozen people died when an apartment building partly collapsed after an explosion. About a dozen others are still missing.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Marinate salmon in miso paste and maple syrup for a quick, delicious meal.Welcome to 2019. Heres how to eat a little better.Making changes in the new year? Use science to stick to your goals.How do you acknowledge a colleagues message? After a recent digital exchange, this writer looked into the history of one of his favored responses: Roger that.In the days of Morse code, an R was sent to indicate that a message had been received.That system evolved with the introduction of radio communications. Early transmissions were often of poor quality, so, to avoid misunderstandings, spelling alphabets were developed. Also called phonetic alphabets, they replaced letters with words that started with the corresponding letter.By World War II, the U.S. and British militaries had settled on a standard: Able for A, Baker for B  and Roger for R. (Previously, the British had used Robert.)In the 1950s, a new alphabet  commonly referred to as the NATO phonetic alphabet  was adopted, and is now the most widely used. It replaced Roger with Romeo. (Im planning to stick with Roger.)Chris Stanford, on the briefings team, wrote todays Back Story. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie HabermanRoger J. Stone Jr., a longtime adviser to President Trump, said on Sunday that he was prepared to fight for my life and prove his innocence in the case brought against him by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III.Mr. Stone, who was charged on Friday with obstruction of justice, witness tampering and making false statements, said on ABCs This Week that text message exchanges that were cited in his indictment were being misrepresented.It has to be seen in context, Mr. Stone said of his exchanges with Randy Credico, a former associate and political gadfly. It is a humorous exchange. Theyre taking things out of context to present them in a light that mischaracterizes their significance. I never told Mr. Credico to lie.Mr. Stone told Mr. Credico in 2017 to do a Frank Pentangeli when he appeared before the House Intelligence Committee investigating Russian interference in the 2016 election. The reference was to a character in The Godfather: Part II who ultimately avoids implicating another person in his own testimony before Congress.If you testify youre a fool, Mr. Stone said in one message, according to the indictment, adding that he could never get away with invoking his Fifth Amendment right but that Mr. Credico could. I guarantee you you are the one who gets indicted for perjury if youre stupid enough to testify.Mr. Stones legal team has said that other text exchanges reveal that he and Mr. Credico often had jocular back and forths, before and after the ones in question, that undercut the notion that Mr. Credico could have felt threatened.Mr. Stone said he had forgotten about some exchanges with Mr. Credico when he told House investigators that they did not exist, a statement that was part of the indictment against him.I did forget on some occasions that I had text messages and emails, Mr. Stone said. I am human and I did make some errors, but theyre errors that would be inconsequential in the scope of this investigation.Mr. Stone also said that he never spoke with Mr. Trump about WikiLeaks, and that they did not discuss a pardon or the investigation into collusion with Russian officials.According to the indictment, a top official from the Trump campaign dispatched him to get information from the group about the thousands of hacked Democratic emails that were damaging to Hillary Clintons presidential campaign.In a tweet over the weekend, Mr. Trump appeared to put some distance between himself and Mr. Stone, saying that his adviser did not work for the campaign for most of 2016.On Sunday, Mr. Stone did not rule out the possibility of speaking with Mr. Muellers investigators.If theres wrongdoing by other people in the campaign that I know about, which I know of none, but if there is I would certainly testify honestly, he said.Id also testify honestly about any other matter, including any communications with the president, he continued. Its true that we spoke on the phone, but those communications are political in nature, theyre benign, and there is  there is certainly no conspiracy with Russia, he said.Mr. Stone also acknowledged that it was unusual for a defendant who has been arrested to promptly go on a media tour. But Mr. Stone, who has never shied from attention, said he wanted to highlight what he called the extraordinary tactics and aggression that the F.B.I. used in its predawn raid on his Florida home.I think the American people need to hear about it, said Mr. Stone, who noted that he is 66, owns no firearms and has an expired passport.I was not a flight risk, he said.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Patricia MazzeiJUPITER, Fla.  Something was amiss at a massage parlor near one of the wealthiest barrier islands in Florida.First, a health inspector spotted several suitcases. Then she noticed an unusual stash of clothing, food and bedding. A young woman who was supposed to be a massage therapist spoke little English and seemed unusually nervous.The inspector reported her findings to the police. They would eventually learn that her suspicions were right: The women were not just employees: They were living in the day spa, sleeping on massage tables and cooking meals on hot plates in the back. Some of them had had their passports confiscated.The inspectors suspicions prompted a sprawling investigation across four Florida counties and two states  Florida and New York  over nearly eight months, resulting in the disruption of what authorities say was a multimillion-dollar human-trafficking and prostitution operation.The sweep led to criminal charges last week against several rich, prominent men, including Robert K. Kraft, the billionaire owner of the New England Patriots; John Havens, former president and chief operating officer of Citigroup; and John Childs, founder of the private equity firm J.W. Childs Associates.Beyond the lurid celebrity connection, however, lies the wretched story of women who the police believe were brought from China under false promises of new lives and legitimate spa jobs. Instead, they found themselves trapped in the austere back rooms of strip-mall brothels  trafficking victims trapped among South Floridas rich and famous.I dont believe they were told they were going to work in massage parlors seven days a week, having unprotected sex with up to 1,000 men a year, said Sheriff William D. Snyder of Martin County, whose office opened the investigation. We saw them eating on hot plates in the back. There were no washing machines. They were sleeping on the massage tables.The women were shuttled from place to place  not only to nearby parlors but also across the state, said Sheriff Snyder. Sheriffs deputies in Orange County, Fla., became involved in the investigation when women from the states Treasure Coast region were traced back to the Orlando area.Sheriff Snyder said he believed at least some of the women were working to pay off debt owed for what it cost to bring them to the United States. In some cases, the womens passports were taken away. Traffickers cycled women in and out of parlors every 10 or 20 days, Sheriff Snyder estimated.Yet making a trafficking case remains difficult, in part because the women who were victims may not want to cooperate with the police. Only one has been talking to deputies, Sheriff Snyder said. He had lined up about a dozen Mandarin interpreters, but many other women refused to speak and were let go with an offer of assistance.I would never consider them prostitutes  it was really a rescue operation, the sheriff said, training his anger at the men whose demand for sex kept the massage parlors in business. The monsters are the men, he added.In addition to arresting men ranging in age from their 30s to at least one in his 80s, the police charged several women who appeared to be overseeing the operation with racketeering, money laundering and prostitution.Sheriff Snyder said investigators, who worked with Immigration and Customs Enforcement, estimated the trafficking ring to be a $20 million international operation. Men paid between $100 and $200 for sex, the sheriff said; between $2 million and $3 million has been seized in Florida, he said, including a safe stuffed with Rolex watches.State Attorney Dave Aronberg of Palm Beach County, whose office leads a human trafficking task force with the F.B.I., said trafficking foreigners to work in places like massage parlors can be more difficult to root out than trafficking, for example, American girls who are recruited in person or online.They come from countries where the police are part of the problem, and theyre smuggled into the country, Mr. Aronberg said.Laura Cusack, a social worker in charge of the human trafficking prevention and education program at Place of Hope, an agency for foster children and trafficking victims in Boca Raton, said foreign victims were often threatened by traffickers in their home countries.Theyre told by traffickers, Ive got people waiting for you, she said. When social workers urge victims like that to come forward to the police, they say, No, you dont understand. Theyre trying to find my little sister back home. Theyre trying to find my daughter, Ms. Cusack said.Mr. Havens, the former Citigroup executive, was elevated to the post in 2011 by his longtime confidant, Vikram Pandit, Citis chief executive. The two became friends as senior executives at Morgan Stanley before they both left in 2005 to start Old Lane Partners, a hedge fund that was acquired by Citigroup two years later for $800 million. Both resigned from Citi on the same day in 2012, after the Federal Reserve indicated Citi was not healthy enough after the financial crisis to start paying more money back to shareholders.Through a spokesman, Mr. Kraft, 77, denied engaging in illegal activity, and Mr. Childs in a statement to Bloomberg also denied the charges.That such a lucrative trafficking network existed near the ritzy enclaves of Jupiter Island, home to the likes of golfer Tiger Woods, and Palm Beach, home to President Trumps Mar-a-Lago estate, seemed unfathomable to some of the gawkers who posed for selfies  and in some cases cracked off-color jokes  on Friday outside the Orchids of Asia massage parlor in Jupiter, the enterprise that officials said Mr. Kraft had visited.But Palm Beach was also the place where a well-connected billionaire financier from New York, Jeffrey E. Epstein, was accused a decade ago of molesting dozens of underage girls  some of them runaways or foster children who are vulnerable to sex trafficking. A federal judge ruled on Thursday that prosecutors violated the rights of Mr. Epsteins victims by failing to inform them of a plea deal that would protect him from sex-trafficking charges.The massage-parlor investigation began farther north, in Hobe Sound, a strip of mainland in Martin County where on July 6 the health inspector reported the signs of potential trafficking at the Bridge Day Spa, according to the arrest affidavit for one of the men. Sheriffs deputies identified the spas owner and another nearby property under her name. They searched online forums where users posted about sex acts performed at the massage parlors. Based on the evidence they collected, they obtained a warrant to conduct surveillance.That approach was far more labor-intensive than past investigations, in which undercover deputies would go into the parlors and arrest women for prostitution, said Sheriff Snyder, a former Republican state representative who helped write Floridas law against human trafficking.I made this decision that we had enough of that: Lets go after the traffickers, he said. I feel, on some level, extremely dissatisfied that I cant do more. I know that we dont even make a dent.In the case of the Orchids of Asia parlor in Jupiter, where services were listed for $59 for half an hour or $79 for an hour, an arrest affidavit for the women managing the spa detailed a similar investigative approach. Police officers watched men going into the spa for 30 to 45 minutes at a time.Once they left, officers followed the men, pulled them over for traffic violations and confronted them about paying for sex. That evidence led to warrants for surveillance cameras, which police secretly installed inside the massage parlors  apparently under the ruse of a possible bomb threat.All of the men arrested in Jupiter were filmed paying for manual or oral sexual stimulation, according to police. Sheriff Snyder said the sex acts his deputies recorded in Martin County included sexual intercourse.Law enforcement spent several weeks identifying the clients, and the women managing the trafficking victims, as well as tracing their finances. Police and prosecutors wrote up their criminal charges and raided the massage parlors on Tuesday.By then, however, some of the women they had identified as victims had been moved elsewhere. New women had taken their place.Follow Patricia Mazzei on Twitter: @PatriciaMazzei.Alain Delaqurire contributed research from New York. Phyllis Messinger contributed reporting from New York.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byEven if it is never released, the public already knows enough.By Caroline FredricksonMs. Fredrickson is the president of the American Constitution Society.People lie to hide the truth. They lie to hide crimes. And while everyone is dying for a peek at Robert Muellers bombshell report to see if he says any crimes were committed by the Trump campaign in 2016, the truth is actually already out there, hidden in plain sight.Mr. Muellers report may never go public, but we dont need a peek at the recommendations he delivered on Friday to Attorney General William Barr to credibly assess that something unethical and likely illegal went on in 2016. The repeated lies told by Trump campaign staff members  lies about their connections to Russian figures  already spin a grand tale of conspiracy and deceit. And its a tale so suspect and sordid that President Trump and his associates felt the need to lie to hide it from law enforcement.This is not conjecture; some of Mr. Trumps people are already in jail, having been convicted in federal court for lying to investigators about their connections to and interactions with Russians during the 2016 campaign. Others have pleaded guilty to similar crimes, which  it bears repeating  is what one does when presented with overwhelming evidence of ones guilt. Still others await trial. Many more have been indicted.Theres the top Trump campaign official Paul Manafort, who is serving time for lying about his history of lobbying for Russian interests and sharing Trump campaign polling data with a Russian intelligence asset during the campaign.And theres the close Trump associate Roger Stone, recently indicted on charges of lying about communications he had with Wikileaks before it released damaging information about Hillary Clinton that law enforcement believes was stolen by Russian hackers.The former Trump lawyer Michael Cohen is headed to jail after admitting that he lied to Congress about a business deal Mr. Trump was pursuing with Russian figures throughout the 2016 campaign, lies Mr. Trump himself echoed on the campaign trail.Michael Flynn, the presidents former national security adviser, will soon be doing time after admitting to making false statements to the F.B.I. to conceal December 2016 communications with Russia regarding the sanctions on Russia imposed by the Obama administration.Lastly, there is George Papadopoulos, a foreign policy adviser to the campaign, who arguably helped precipitate the investigation when he bragged about his knowledge of Russian dirt on Mrs. Clinton to an Australian diplomat who then alerted the F.B.I. Mr. Papadopoulos subsequently pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. and served time in prison.Then there is the president himself.From the outset, Mr. Trumps approach to the Mueller investigation has been characterized by paranoia and fear. With his increasingly shrill denials, the president comes across more as someone who fears he will be found out than someone convinced of his innocence.And he has lied to the American people.The presidents version of events regarding his campaigns interactions with Russia has changed repeatedly since the investigation began. From early assertions during his campaign that he had no business interests in Russia, to claims about his role in issuing false statements about the infamous Trump Tower meeting with Russians, the president has been caught in numerous, verifiable lies on this issue. It just remains to be seen whether he lied to cover up actual criminal activity, including conspiring with a foreign power to sway an election, or working to obstruct investigations into those ties.Ideally, Mr. Barr will share Mr. Muellers report with the country. But if he elects to withhold it, President Trump will no doubt claim victory. He will no doubt treat the absence of an indictment as full vindication. But heres a truth for the president: He was never going to be indicted. The Department of Justice has a longstanding policy against indicting a sitting president, and the absence of an indictment does not mean no evidence of conspiracy or obstruction was found.Indeed, Mr. Muellers report may not be the end of the presidents legal peril, only the beginning. Thats because report or no report, through his prosecutions, referrals, indictments, convictions and subpoenas, Mr. Mueller has already provided the House of Representative with some very clear paths for investigation. So even if the Mueller report simply gets tossed in a drawer in Mr. Barrs desk for all eternity, there is already sufficient material out there to let the House exercise its newly rediscovered oversight responsibilities and get to the bottom of what happened between the Trump campaign and Russia during the 2016 election. Remember, Richard Nixon was not indicted, and there was no commensurate special counsel report in the Watergate scandal. There doesnt need to be one here to right wrongs so egregious they were apparently worth lying about.Caroline Fredrickson (@crfredrickson) is the president of the American Constitution Society and author of Under the Bus: How Working Women Are Being Run Over and the forthcoming The Democracy Fix: How to Win the Fight for Fair Rules, Fair Courts and Fair Elections.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.An earlier version of this essay misstated the status of George Papadopoulos, a foreign policy adviser during Donald Trump's 2016 campaign. He served 12 days in prison for lying to the F.B.I. and was released; he is not currently behind bars.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Mitch Smith and Julie TurkewitzSAULT STE. MARIE, Mich.  For one tribe of Chippewa Indians in Michigans Upper Peninsula, the government shutdown comes with a price tag: about $100,000, every day, of federal money that does not arrive to keep health clinics staffed, food pantry shelves full and employees paid.The tribe is using its own funds to cover the shortfalls for now. But if the standoff in Washington continues much longer, that stopgap money will be depleted. Later this month, workers could be furloughed and health services could be pared back. Everything, said Aaron Payment, the chairman of the Sault Ste. Marie Tribe, is on the table.For many Americans who are not federal workers or contractors, a shutdown is a minor inconvenience. A trip to a national park may be canceled. A call to a government office may go unanswered. But for Native American tribes, which rely heavily on federal money to operate, a shutdown can cripple their most basic functions.All across Indian Country, the federal shutdown slices deep. Generations ago, tribes negotiated treaties with the United States government guaranteeing funds for services like health care and education in exchange for huge swaths of territory.The federal government owes us this: We prepaid with millions of acres of land, said Mr. Payment, who also criticized the shutdown on Monday from the stage at his tribes New Years powwow. We dont have the right to take back that land, so we expect the federal government to fulfill its treaty and trust responsibility.On the Navajo Nation, a mostly rural reservation of red rock canyon that spans parts of New Mexico, Arizona and Utah, the government shutdown has already been difficult, said Russell Begaye, the Navajo Nations president.A blanket of snow has covered the region, but roads are unplowed because federal maintenance has stopped. Many people are now trapped in their homes, unable to make the 20- or 50-mile journey to buy water, groceries and medicine, said Mr. Begaye.The Interior Departments Indian Affairs bureau provides basic services to about 1.9 million American Indians and Alaska Natives, often by funneling funds to the tribes to administer the services themselves or by employing federal workers to run the programs. This means that services from law enforcement to tribal courts, disaster relief and road maintenance are often completed by tribal employees whose salaries rely on federal funding  or by federal workers, some of whom are tribal citizens.The Bureau of Indian Affairs was set to furlough 2,295 of 4,057 employees during a shutdown, meaning at least some of those services and salaries will be slowed or stopped.Because the federal government contributes to the salaries of many members of the Navajo Nation, Mr. Begaye said the lack of pay would hurt families on the reservation, where a single salary can support a family of six, 10 or even 12 people. Mr. Begaye said loan sharks have started circling, leaving fliers on cars and doorsteps.It just kind of snowballs into our people doing things that they know they shouldnt do and further financially obligating themselves, Mr. Begaye said. They have to keep their heater going. They have to keep their water on.On the Bois Forte Indian Reservation in northern Minnesota, tribal officials have instituted a hiring freeze and are planning to meet later this week to discuss budget cuts. Cathy Chavers, the tribes chairwoman, said tribal functions were continuing for now, but it will probably come down to minimal, minimal basic services if the shutdown lasts another month.Already, police officers on her reservation, who are employees of the federal government and not the tribe, were being forced to work without pay.These officers are putting their lives on the line, Ms. Chavers said, and they dont know if theyre going to get a paycheck or not.Tribes are making plans for how much longer they can operate, while not knowing whether they will be reimbursed for shutdown-related expenses. Officials with the Oneida Nation of Wisconsin said that they had made contingency plans but that they could manage at least another month without any cuts. The Shoshone-Bannock Tribes in Idaho posted on Facebook that they had enough money to operate at full strength through Saturday, but would then have to re-evaluate.Things do grind to a halt, said Kevin Washburn, who served as the assistant secretary for Indian Affairs under President Barack Obama. Indian Country stops moving forward during a shutdown, Mr. Washburn said, and starts moving backward.A spokesman for the Interior Department, reached on New Years Eve, said so many people were out of the office for the holiday, or furloughed, that he had no information about the way the shutdown was playing out in Indian Country.Literally, theres a handful of people that are currently excepted and able to work, said the spokesman, John Bockmier, about his office. I just dont have any details from around the country to give you, he went on, because there is no one out there that is currently able to provide that information for me.For tribes, this has become a familiar, painful scenario. In 2013, during Mr. Obamas presidency, a lengthy shutdown forced a California tribe to close its child care program. In Minnesota, a tribe postponed nonemergency medical procedures. And the Sault Ste. Marie Chippewa in Michigan lost several employees to layoffs, including hard-to-replace medical staff who did not return after that shutdown ended.With those bad memories in mind, the Sault Chippewa tribal council approved a resolution last month (on the same day President Trump sparred with Democratic leaders about a border wall on television) that allowed leaders to shuffle funds if federal money stopped flowing. That step has delayed the worst of the pain, but it can help only for so long. Already, tribal officials have sent a memo encouraging frugality and canceled the purchase of a new computer server.Were not going to collapse. We may have to decide, What we can do with our own funding? said Christine McPherson, the Sault Chippewa Tribes executive director. But well never close.There have been some efforts to limit the impact. Representative Markwayne Mullin, Republican of Oklahoma, introduced a bill last month that would have maintained funding for the Indian Health Service during a shutdown. His proposal did not make it to a vote, but Mr. Mullin, who said I have no read on how long the shutdown would last, said he hoped his idea would gain bipartisan traction if the broader impasse stretches on.This is a true federal obligation to treaties to Native Americans, said Mr. Mullin, who is a citizen of the Cherokee Nation and who received health care at an Indian Health Service facility while growing up. This is different than really any other government agency.If the shutdown continues, it could also curtail a Department of Agriculture food program that helped feed about 90,000 Native American people in fiscal year 2017. The program is funded through January, but no new federal money will be designated if the government closing goes beyond that, according to a memo from the department. State and tribal agencies will have to decide if they can fill in the gap. Chairman Joseph Rupnick of the Prairie Band Potawatomi Nation, headquartered in northeast Kansas, said he feared the impact that this would have on his members.Those stores will be depleted, Mr. Rupnick said of the tribes food distribution center. When theyre going through a shutdown, theyre thinking: I need five billion for a wall. I need dollars for this or that. The bottom line is it always impacts the neediest people in the country.The shutdown has further eroded many Native Americans confidence in the federal government, which they said has never lived up to lofty promises made in long-ago treaties. I believe very strongly that it adversely affects a population that is already adversely affected by the United States government, said Harry Barnes, a former chairman of Montanas 17,000-member Blackfeet Nation.An earlier version of this article, using information from an Interior Department report from January 2018, gave outdated figures for the number of employees set to be furloughed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs in a shutdown. It is 2,295 of 4,057, not 2,662 of 4,490. An earlier version also stated that the shutdown had curtailed a Department of Agriculture food program. The program will be funded through January, but will be curtailed if the shutdown continues beyond that date.Mitch Smith reported from Sault Ste. Marie, Mich., and Julie Turkewitz from Denver.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Jonathan MartinWASHINGTON  By the time a Republican challenged Representative Steve King of Iowa in the 2016 party primary, Mr. King had already courted far-right foreign leaders, proposed electric wiring atop a border wall to treat illegal immigrants like straying livestock, and said young migrants had calves the size of cantaloupes because theyre hauling 75 pounds of marijuana across the desert.But in that race Mr. King had the help of fellow Republicans like the then-Gov. Terry Branstad and Senators Charles Grassley and Joni Ernst. Each of those Iowa Republicans overlooked Mr. Kings history of racist remarks and divisive conduct  well before his recent comments about white supremacy  and backed Mr. Kings re-election in the states most heavily conservative district.Mr. King won handily.They didnt care too much about Steve King  it was about the primary voters Steve King represents, said the former state senator Rick Bertrand, the G.O.P. challenger in that race.He described the support for Mr. King as an act of self-preservation by Republican politicians who did not want to cross the hard-line voters in Western Iowas conservative heartland. But now the reality is we may actually lose the seat, so Steve has finally fired Steve, Mr. Bertrand said.One day after House G.O.P. leaders stripped Mr. King of his committee assignments, Representative Liz Cheney of Wyoming, the third-ranking Republican, pushed him toward the exits, Iowa Republicans began a super PAC aimed at unseating him in 2020 and Ms. Ernst said voters in Iowa would make the correct choice moving forward about Mr. King, it was becoming clear that the nine-term lawmaker may finally be facing the ultimate political consequence for his remarks.Its racist, we do not support it or agree with it, and I think he should find another line of work, Ms. Cheney told reporters Tuesday, going even further than the House minority leader, Kevin McCarthy, about Mr. Kings comment to The Times: White nationalist, white supremacist, Western civilization  how did that language become offensive?The House also voted nearly unanimously on Tuesday to endorse a resolution that rejected white nationalism and white supremacy as hateful expressions of intolerance that are contradictory to the values that define the people of the United States. Even though it was aimed at the Iowa Republican, the broadly worded resolution was less than some lawmakers wanted to bring up, and even Mr. King spoke in favor of it.Representative Bobby Rush, an Illinois Democrat, wanted to formally censure Mr. King and drafted a measure to do just that.My resolution lets Steve King know if he continues this type of behavior, then the next level would be expulsion for him, said Mr. Rush, who was the only no vote.The confluence of his closer-than-expected re-election, the devastating losses House Republicans suffered with educated and minority voters in November and the blunt-force nature of what he does not deny saying has made Mr. King toxic in his partys caucus.Yet even as it became clear that his fate may be sealed, many Democrats and, more quietly, some Republicans were wondering why he survived as long as he has given his 15-year record of making what were at a minimum racially provocative comments.His drift toward nativism may have seemed of little consequence when he was a junior lawmaker in George W. Bush-era Washington and Republicans were more sympathetic to immigration.But no other member of Congress has so aggressively sought to develop relationships with white nationalist groups abroad, and those groups became empowered at about the same time the then-candidate Donald J. Trump was making a hard line on immigration his signature issue.As a result, Mr. Kings inflammatory remarks have gained more attention  both because of how they reflect on him and how they cast a brighter light on Mr. Trump and the Republican Party.Some congressional Republicans saw the path Mr. King was on: Representative Steve Stivers of Ohio, the chairman of the House campaign arm last year, surprised some in the party by speaking out against Mr. King shortly before the election. Mr. Stivers called Mr. Kings conduct completely inappropriate and said we must stand up against white supremacy and hate in all forms.Still, for the most part, G.O.P. officials looked the other way or offered one-off condemnations of Mr. King as his flirtation with nationalist figures like Geert Wilders of the Netherlands deepened and he made increasingly incendiary remarks about, for example, the impossibility of sustaining civilization with somebody elses babies.The tolerance of Mr. Kings conduct  and he did seem emboldened by Mr. Trumps takeover of the party  stands in contrast to how an earlier generation of Republicans addressed public displays of racial bigotry or racial insensitivity. Bigots like the former Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke were shunned by party officials, and when the former Senate majority leader Trent Lott used Strom Thurmonds 100th birthday party to seemingly praise segregation, it cost him his leadership post.So why would Republicans wait until Mr. King flatly defended white supremacy to punish him?I havent been following every utterance of Congressman King. I certainly followed this one, and I think the House Republican conference did the right thing, Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, told reporters Tuesday.Asked the same question, Mr. McCarthy shot back: Have I been leader for years?He said he had been the top House Republican for only a short amount of time and was now in a position to take action.But one former adviser to the last Republican leader, the former Speaker Paul D. Ryan, pointedly noted on Tuesday that Mr. McCarthy and Steve Scalise, his second-in-command, were not as vocal as Mr. Ryan when it came to Mr. Kings eruptions.Of course, Mr. Ryan never sought to punish Mr. King as severely as Mr. McCarthy did Monday.Former aides to Mr. Ryan and John A. Boehner, another former House speaker, said both admonished Mr. King, but noted that he was a backbencher of little consequence in the Capitol and argued that he had not said anything nearly as incendiary as what he did last week.Along with public pushback, Paul admonished King directly several times about his behavior, said AshLee Strong, who was a spokeswoman for Mr. Ryan. These latest comments warrant harsh consequences, and he believes McCarthy did the right thing by booting him.David Schnittger, a former aide to Mr. Boehner, recalled that his ex-boss called Mr. Kings comments about young migrants smuggling marijuana deeply offensive and wrong and pointed out that the then-speaker had privately used an obscenity to describe Mr. King in the aftermath of those remarks.Another former aide to Mr. Boehner, Michael Steel, said Mr. Kings behavior had reached a tipping point but conceded that congressional Republicans also face a political imperative.If youre going to win back the majority by winning suburban districts in places like California and New Jersey, its important to take a firm line against this sort of thing, Mr. Steel said.But he said publicly what many Republicans say privately: that excommunicating Mr. King will matter little if Mr. Trump is the nominee in 2020.Whatever we do on Steve King is on the margins compared to what the president says and does, Mr. Steel said.In Iowa, Mr. Kings longtime supporters said they felt that he was unfairly treated by the media and that the warm and engaging lawmaker they saw in the largely rural district was nothing like the caricature they read about.But after defeating a little-known Democrat by only just over three percentage points and increasingly shifting his attention from the soybean rows and hog processing plants around Sioux City to the fringe nationalist politics in other countries, Mr. Kings defenders started to lose their patience.Who cares who the mayor of Toronto is when youre from northwest Iowa? said Mark Lundberg, the former chairman of the Sioux County Republican Party, alluding to Mr. Kings endorsement last fall of Faith Goldy, a white-nationalist candidate in Canadas largest city. It was just a constant.While calling Mr. King a good guy, Mr. Lundberg said that he crossed a line with his comments on white supremacy and that it was time for the district to rally behind a candidate without all the controversy.Echoing Mr. Bertrand, Mr. Lundberg acknowledged that there was great concern in the party about how close Mr. Kings re-election was  leaving little doubt that what is partly driving the calculation to nudge him out is that he may imperil the partys hold on what is otherwise a safe Republican seat.Republicans there have created a super PAC called Iowa Four, named after the district, to target Mr. King, according to an Iowa Republican involved with the planning. And the conservative Club for Growth PAC has made inquiries in the state about finding a potential alternative to the incumbent.Mr. King already has two Republican opponents, and Mr. Bertrand did not rule out another bid.The day of reckoning has come, and now it is just a matter of how the story ends, crowed Nick Ryan, an Iowa Republican strategist who has long sought to oust Mr. King.For the first time since 1899, Mr. Ryan noted, Iowa does not have a member on the House Agriculture Committee.And two of Iowas largest newspapers, The Des Moines Register and The Sioux City Journal, each published an editorial Tuesday urging Mr. King to resign.But he has given no indication that he will resign. He said on the House floor Tuesday that he understands and recognizes the gravity of this issue and insisted that he rejects white supremacy.But his critics in Iowa were already testing out their attacks, suggesting voters would not return a lawmaker to office who is too controversial to even serve on any committees.He has been rendered impotent, Mr. Bertrand said. The national folks are forcing the local hand.Astead W. Herndon, Catie Edmonson and Sheryl Gay Stolberg contributed reporting.OpinionFrank BruniAdvertisement"
"The deaths of two children in Border Patrol custody point to shortfalls in health care provided to migrants, who sometimes arrive with serious illness and injury.Migrants from Honduras were taken into custody by Border Patrol agents near Granjeno, Tex., last month.CreditCreditTamir Kalifa for The New York TimesSupported byBy Sheri Fink and Caitlin DickersonMcALLEN, Tex.  It was nearly 9 p.m., hours after the makeshift clinic for newly arrived migrants near the Mexican border in Texas was supposed to close, but the patients would not stop coming: A feverish teenager with a vile-smelling wound on his foot. A man with a head injury and bright red eyes. Children with fevers, coughs and colds.Earlier in the day, a little girl named Nancy had been brought into the clinic with a cough and shaking chills. She had been vomiting, she said, and her spine hurt. An assistant took her temperature. Shes got 104, almost 105, she said.The steady flow of migrants who arrived that night at the volunteer respite center operated by Catholic Charities here in the Rio Grande Valley had just been released by Customs and Border Protection after being apprehended near the border. The new arrivals had been in federal custody for up to 72 hours, but most had received no real medical attention  the volunteer physicians at the private clinic were the first doctors many had seen since crossing the border.He may lose that leg, Dr. Martin Garza, a local pediatrician who works at the clinic every other weekend, warned the father of the teenager with the foot wound, handing him a course of antibiotics to take with him. I cleaned it up as much as I could.An average of 2,200 migrants a day are now crossing the nations 1,900-mile border with Mexico, many after grueling journeys that leave them injured, sick or badly dehydrated. Yet most of the nations Customs and Border Protection facilities along the border lack sufficient accommodations, staffing or procedures to thoroughly assess health needs or provide more than basic emergency care, a situation that has led to dangerous medical oversights.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]Six adults died in C.B.P. custody in the fiscal year ending in October, at least three of whom had a medical emergency shortly after being apprehended. Another, who had serious chronic diseases and was hospitalized, died from health complications last month. In December, two migrant children  Jakelin Caal Maquin, 7, and Felipe Gmez Alonzo, 8  died within three weeks of each other after showing signs of illness while being held and transported by Border Patrol agents in Texas and New Mexico.A New York Times review of records and dozens of interviews with migrants, agents, researchers and health workers suggest that some of these deaths were not anomalies, but rather signs of entrenched problems that have repeatedly put detainees with medical conditions at risk.At respite centers like the one in McAllen, Tex., that shelter migrants for a night or two after they are released from Border Patrol custody, doctors say the care provided by the agency has sometimes been so poor that they have had to send new arrivals straight to emergency rooms.Theyre not treated as if their health and well-being is valued on any level, said Dr. Anna Landau, a family medicine doctor who volunteers at a migrant shelter run by Catholic Community Services in Tucson. How do you send people who are clearly hurting, clearly in pain and suffering, how do you just move them through as if theyre just another number, as opposed to an actual human being?Migrants crossing the border from Mexico may be injured scaling barriers, in vehicle accidents, by gunfire or from nearly drowning. They may be suffering from dehydration, heat exhaustion or communicable illnesses  from influenza to chickenpox  that often spread in conditions of close confinement, though none so far have presented what health officials regard as an unusual or alarming public health or infectious disease threat. Some require medications for chronic diseases such as asthma, diabetes and high blood pressure. Yet Border Patrol facilities until now have failed to provide comprehensive health screenings for those in their care. Medications  including lifesaving prescriptions for such conditions as asthma, heart disease and infant diarrhea  are routinely confiscated. Some migrants describe being left alone in concrete cells with broken bones and recent surgeries, their pain medication deeply inadequate.In the coming days, the agency is expected to announce significant changes related to the health of migrants, including policies requiring Border Patrol agents to conduct more thorough interviews of each migrant who is processed through the system, and to refer all those who need care to a medical provider.The agency is also building a large new processing center in El Paso and adding $47 million to a private contract for migrant medical care.Were doing everything we can to ensure rapid medical care when needed, Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security secretary, said at the White House in January. The men and women of C.B.P. and ICE are doing the best they can with what they have, but they dont have the facilities, the resources or the legal authorities to keep up with this crisis.[Read: The Hidden Nightmare of Sexual Violence on the Border]Representative Raul Ruiz, a Democrat from California who is also a physician, helped secure funding for additional measures to improve migrant health after visiting border facilities where he said he saw children coughing and sneezing and infants without diapers, all packed tightly into cells with little in the way of food, soap and other basics. The Border Patrol stations and those working there were unprepared, untrained and underequipped in dealing with the humanitarian needs of families, he said.The moves come after years of warnings from both inside and outside government that were largely ignored by an agency that saw its primary mission as law enforcement  catching and deporting illegal border crossers, not nursing them back to health.Border Patrol is a law enforcement agency. Its not a humanitarian agency, said Dr. Alexander L. Eastman, a senior medical officer with the Homeland Security Department who is trying to put into place, for the first time, a comprehensive approach to the care of migrants across the department.Some health care workers said they have seen Border Patrol agents in the field prioritize enforcement of immigration laws over migrants urgent medical needs. Ambulance crews near the border say they sometimes face delays at Border Patrol checkpoints.In one case around five years ago, described to The Times by two people who worked for an emergency medical response team in Starr County, Tex., a critically ill woman was driven across the bridge from Mexico into Rio Grande City and loaded into an ambulance from a nearby hospital. A paramedic, Sergio Garza Jr., began to help her with her breathing. But a C.B.P. employee, he said, opened the back doors of the vehicle and ordered the patient sent back, because she did not have papers to enter the United States.Mr. Garza and the director of his ambulance company protested, to no avail. Mr. Garza grudgingly transferred the patient back to a Mexican ambulance, which did not have trained personnel aboard, both he and the director recalled. Mr. Garza said he showed the patients husband how to squeeze an oxygen bag to try to keep his wife alive as she was driven toward a distant Mexican hospital. She died on the way there, the emergency workers said.For at least a decade, families and advocacy organizations have reported lapses in medical care for people in the custody of C.B.P. Complaints filed over the past few years included a mother who gave birth prematurely and was later forced to stay with the baby in a dirty hold room, a detainee who was refused access to prescribed heart medication, and a woman who had heavy vaginal bleeding after a sexual assault and was not provided any medical attention.The number of deaths remains unknown and is perhaps unknowable  the agency until December was not required to independently review or publicly report health-related deaths in its custody. And the consequences of failing to address urgent medical needs often emerge after detainees are quickly passed on to another agency, or released.In 2015, C.B.P. addressed some of the criticisms by establishing its first nationwide standards on transport and detention. However, the standards are nonbinding  the agency cannot be sued for not following them  and the subject of medical care in detention covers less than a page.Detention by Customs and Border Protection is intended to be brief  72 hours or less, according to the standards. However that guideline is often broken. Felipe Gmez Alonzo, the boy who died in December and had influenza, was in his sixth day of detention when he was taken to a hospital, according to a timeline provided by the agency.At the hospital, Felipe was found to have a 103-degree fever. He was discharged from the emergency room several hours later, and agents took him back to a temporary holding cell at a highway checkpoint. Hours later, as the boy grew sicker, no medically trained agents were on duty there. He was returned to the hospital, but lost consciousness on the way.Children should not be held in C.B.P. holding cells longer than 24 hours, said Kathryn Hampton, a program officer for Physicians for Human Rights and the author of a recent study that found that the focus on securing the border has come at the cost of migrants safety.In some cases, Border Patrol agents take sick migrants to be seen at hospitals, but problems persist once they are brought back to C.B.P.s crowded, ill-equipped facilities.Sonia Diaz-Castro, 39, an asylum seeker from Honduras, had fallen off the top of a 25-foot border wall as she entered the United States last year and was left barely able to move, with a broken elbow and pelvis.Border Patrol agents in New Mexico took her twice to local hospitals, and a doctor at one of them said he was promised by the agents that she would be given a wheelchair and have someone on hand to help her get around. She had neither. Though she was barely able to move, she was left alone in a concrete cell. When she had to use the toilet, she was forced to drag herself across the floor using her broken arm.I just felt like crying out  like the only thing I could do was cry, and when I think about it, it still makes me want to cry, Ms. Diaz-Castro said of the experience.On a typical afternoon in early February, Border Patrol radios in South Texas crackled with reports of bodies, people whose unauthorized crossing of the border had been detected by ground motion sensors and cameras on poles and tethered radar blimps.Agents responded as about 60 people from Honduras, Guatemala, Ecuador and Nicaragua, including mothers with children and some unaccompanied minors, clambered off rafts after crossing the Rio Grande. Hefting bags and babies, they climbed a muddy dirt path that cut through spiny brushlands, walking toward the agents, who awaited them at a gap in the border wall.Ren Reyes, a Border Patrol agent and emergency medical technician, eyeballed them for, he said, anything life-threatening.Mr. Reyes stopped briefly to ask parents about a boy with surgical scars on his head who was wearing a mask over his nose and mouth. He had a condition that causes too much fluid to build up in the brain, but he appeared stable. The kids look O.K., Mr. Reyes concluded. His initial assessment of the entire group lasted less than five minutes.The children would get a more thorough medical check at their next stop, one of two temporary detention facilities in an industrial part of McAllen. Inside the agencys largest processing center for migrants, chain-link fencing divides a vast warehouse with concrete floors into clusters of cells separating men from women and older children from parents. The site was opened in 2014 specifically for the temporary holding of families and unaccompanied children. When that site is full, an older facility with enclosed, jail-like cells processes families several blocks away.That afternoon, medical screeners sent a newly arrived 6-month-old, Victoria Medina, to the hospital after noticing that she was sick with a fever, severe cough and diarrhea. Hospital workers treated the baby and sent her back to C.B.P.That night Victorias mother, Mayte Medina, an 18-year-old from Honduras, lay on the bare floor of her chilly isolation cell under a thin Mylar sheet and held on tight to her coughing baby. The fever broke, but the diarrhea continued; the bottle of medicine Ms. Medina had carried with her to treat it had been in her backpack, which was confiscated when she was taken into custody. I told everyone about it, everyone that saw her, Ms. Medina said. They never gave her anything.Ms. Medinas relatively easy access to medical care was possible in part because she was apprehended in the heart of the Rio Grande Valley, the most heavily trafficked way station for migrants in the United States. Last year, more than 63,200 migrants traveling as families were apprehended there.The Border Patrol facilities in McAllen are among the few in the country that have a small number of midlevel health professionals  nurse practitioners or physician assistants  on site. As government officials examine how they might expand medical services, those sites have been looked at as potential models.But even in those places, providing care in a facility where the ultimate decisions are controlled by law enforcement authorities sometimes frustrates practice and strains ethics. A former contract health care worker at the McAllen sites, who was not authorized to speak on the record by her previous employer, Loyal Source, recalled several occasions when she had alerted agents that a patient needed to go to the emergency room. Two or three hours later, she said, the patient was still there.Sometimes, she said, she blocked migrants with high fevers from being released to longer-term detention facilities. But she also sometimes felt intimidated, as if she would be blamed for slowing down the flow.She said that according to protocol, if a woman claimed that she had been raped, she had to be offered access to medical care to check for pregnancy, trauma and sexually transmitted infections. But that didnt always occur, she said.In recent months, large groups of children and families have crossed into the United States  in remote desert areas lacking in medical infrastructure, including Antelope Wells, N.M., where one of the fatally ill children, Jakelin Caal Maquin, had arrived. A total of 15 Border Patrol stations or ports of entry that are within 100 miles of the southern border have no hospital within an hours drive, the Times review found.It is a perilous twist on a problem that has existed for years, after changes in border enforcement practices pushed furtive crossings into these areas.Some migrants encounter agents and turn themselves in; others spend days traversing vast ranchlands in extreme heat. Hundreds die every year. Agents often have to extract sick migrants from rough terrain to meet ambulance personnel, who may have to drive for hours to reach hospitals.An earlier attempt to solve the problem led to the creation in 1998 of a unit trained in tactical rescues and emergency medical services that has performed thousands of medical interventions. A separate program trains regular agents as emergency medical technicians. Over all, around 6 percent of Border Patrol agents can act as emergency medical services providers. Still, the vast majority have only basic training. Their protocols and equipment are limited. And they are not present everywhere their skills are needed.Border patrol station or port of entry...... without a hospital within an hours drive... with only one hospital within an hours driveNEWMEXICOARIZONATEXASCALIF.El PasoLosAngelesTucsonLaredoMcAllen100 MILESMEXICONORTHBorder patrol station or port of entry...... without a hospital within an hours drive... with only one hospital within an hours driveNEWMEXICOTEXASARIZONACALIF.El PasoLosAngelesTucsonLaredoMcAllenMEXICO100 MILESNORTHBorder patrol station or port of entry...... without a hospital within an hours drive... with only one hospital within an hours driveNEWMEXICOARIZONATEXASCALIF.El PasoLosAngelesTucsonLaredoMEXICO100 MILESNORTHBorder patrol station or port of entry... ... without a hospital within an hours drive... with only one hospital within an hours driveNEWMEXICOARIZONATEXASCALIF.MEXICO100 MILESNORTHSources: State health departments, U.S. Customs and Border Protection and Openrouteservice.org | Note: Only stations within 100 miles of the border are shown. Forward operating bases are not shown.By Denise LuWhere local emergency rooms are close at hand, Border Patrol agents tend to err on the side of caution, taking their charges for costly and sometimes unnecessary medical evaluations, several health providers said.In other cases, the Border Patrol focuses on moving migrants quickly through the system, and many end up in shelters and clinics run by charities, such as the one operated by Catholic Charities in McAllen.On a recent evening, dozens of migrants were dropped off at a shelter near the southern border of California, run by the San Diego Rapid Response Network. They stood outside, lined up near white tents under lights powered by a roaring generator. Medical workers supported by the county screened them for communicable diseases and other conditions.The rotating medical team diagnosed many untreated conditions that could spread, including 362 cases of lice, 113 cases of scabies, 22 cases of possible influenza, and four cases of chickenpox in the first two months of this year. The medical professionals referred 52 people to an emergency room.One young man stood out that evening. He limped to the tent on crutches, in great pain. A metal fixator emerged from his lower left leg, swaddled in layers of bloodied gauze. The only medical record a nurse could find in his belongings was a single X-ray showing a severe fracture he had sustained on his journey to the United States.The man had undergone surgery on his leg at a nearby hospital and was returned to detention the previous night. Now he was at the shelter. They just dropped him here, Dr. Kathy Fischer, the doctor on duty, said with a note of incredulity in her voice. Its kind of crazy.Sheri Fink reported from McAllen and San Ysidro, Calif., and Caitlin Dickerson from El Paso. Susan Beachy contributed research.Follow Sheri Fink on Twitter @sherifink and Caitlin Dickerson @itscaitlinhd.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Dan BilefskyMONTREAL  Being nice in Canada can sometimes feel like a full-time job.There was that time Prime Minister Justin Trudeau cuddled with two baby pandas.Over the weekend, Foreign Minister Chrystia Freeland welcomed a Saudi teenager at Toronto airport with a warm embrace after she had fled abusive members of her family and been granted asylum in Canada.Now, Canadian air traffic controllers have helped burnish the countrys image as the do-gooder of the world by sending hundreds of pizzas to their American counterparts, who have been working without pay since a government shutdown began on Dec. 22.And, yes, some were apparently garnished with Canadian bacon.Peter Duffey, president of the Canadian Air Traffic Control Association, said the show of cheesy support began last week when employees at an air traffic control center in Edmonton, Alberta, decided to buy pizzas for their colleagues at an office in Anchorage, Alaska. Soon, dozens of other Canadian traffic control centers joined in.We wanted to show solidarity with our American colleagues, he said. In our society we are polite and friendly people and this gesture is part of that.In the United States, people have responded to this simple act of pizza by saying, Damn, you Canadians are so nice. Im moving to Canada. By Monday, about 400 pizzas had been delivered to air traffic control towers across the United States, from El Paso, Tex., to Ronkonkoma, Long Island, which on Friday received 32 pies from Ginos Pizzeria of Ronkonkoma, compliments of air traffic controllers in Gander, Newfoundland, and Moncton, New Brunswick.[Want more Canadian coverage in your inbox? Sign up for our weekly Canada Letter newsletter.]Many Canadians have reacted with shock to what they regard as the seemingly endless drama of the Trump administration, including the special counsel investigation of President Trump and the acrimonious trade negotiations between Canada and the United States.Now the United States government is partly shut down, caught in a political dispute over securing money for a southern-border wall that Mr. Trump wants to help keep migrants out.Canadians have sought to avoid un-Canadian-like behavior such as gloating. But with the pizza deliveries, they appeared to bask in their own relative serenity and yet another feel-good moment reaffirming their humanism. Pizza Diplomacy, eh! Ankur Chhabra, an economist studying public health in Toronto, wrote on Twitter. Proud to be in a country that is so full of love and respect for everyone. Our southern neighbors need to imbibe this more often, I guess.Thats why the world loves Canada, an entrepreneur identified as KC wrote on Twitter.Thats amore, added The Toronto Star.In the United States, where about 10,000 air traffic controllers have been working without pay, the reaction was also effusive.On ATC Memes, a Facebook page run by a former air traffic controller that helped the pizza gifts gain global attention, there was an outpouring of gratitude for Canada.Among those commenting was Chris Taylor, who saluted the country of bone-chilling weather, socialized medicine and maple syrup.I know who Im voting for next election, he wrote. Canada!A Twitter user identified as Call me Myke wrote that he was very grateful for the extremely kind gesture of buying us pizza while our own government isnt paying us. He added, I might have to cheer for a Canadian hockey team.O! Canada we dont deserve you, added George Capen, a California-based United States Navy veteran.Mr. Duffey noted that air-traffic control was among the most stressful jobs, and that the Canadians, who work closely with Americans to ensure the safety of North American airspace, hoped that the pizza would cheer them up.In our business you have to be 100 percent right, 100 percent of the time and there is no room for error, he said. Now, on top of that, people have to come to work and worry about the added stress of paying their mortgages or putting food on the table.Canadians, he added, had long shown humanity in times of crisis in the United States, including during the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, when citizens of Gander, Newfoundland, housed and fed nearly 6,700 people after American airspace was closed and 38 planes were forced to land in the small Canadian town of 10,000 people.Their willingness to host those who were stranded captured the global imagination, and inspired a Tony Award-winning Broadway musical, Come from Away.Pilgrims from the United States have even traveled to Gander to meet nice people.Canadian air traffic controllers were not alone in expressing solidarity with their American counterparts through pizza offerings. Controllers at the Irish Aviation Authority base in Shannon did the same, ordering six large pies for workers in Westbury, Long Island, news media in Ireland reported Monday. The Irish Sun said Borrellis Italian Restaurant Cafe and Pizzeria delivered the pies Sunday night.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe most successful economic system shouldnt be a dirty word.By Bret StephensOpinion ColumnistJohn Hickenlooper ought to be a poster child for American capitalism. After being laid off from his job as a geologist during the oil bust of the 1980s, he and his business partners turned an empty warehouse into a thriving brewery. It launched his political career, first as a problem-solving two-term mayor of Denver, then as a pragmatic two-term governor of Colorado, and now as a centrist candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination.Yet there he was on MSNBCs Morning Joe, squirming in his seat as Joe Scarborough asked if he would call himself a proud capitalist. Hickenlooper protested the divisiveness of labels. He refused to reject the term socialism. He tried, like a vegetarian who still wants his bacon, to have it both ways: There are parts of socialism, parts of capitalism, in everything.But Hickenlooper did allow this: We worked 70, 80, 90 hours a week to build the business; and we worked with the other business owners in [Lower Downtown Denver] to help them build their business. Is that capitalism? I guess.He guessed right.Today, despite Fridays disappointing jobs report, unemployment in the United States clocks in at a rock-bottom 3.8 percent. Wage growth, at 3.4 percent, is at a 10-year high. The median household income is as high as it has ever been. The United States is the worlds most competitive economy, as well as the wealthiest once you exclude small countries like Qatar. None of this should be difficult to celebrate. An economy in which private property is protected, private enterprise is rewarded, markets set prices and profits provide incentives will, over time, generate more wealth, innovation and charity  and distribute each far more widely  than any form of central planning. This is not a theory. Its as true in Nordic countries like Denmark (often mislabeled socialist) as it is in hyper-capitalist Singapore. Its the empirically verifiable conclusion from the 20th centurys bitter contest between capitalist and socialist states. Its not a race we should have to run twice.Nor should it be hard for someone like Hickenlooper to acknowledge as much  while also insisting on the distinction between unrestrained and regulated capitalism, market prices and moral values. One of the reasons why the right-wing charge of socialism against the Democratic Party rarely stuck was that it was generally untrue. To smooth the edges of capitalism, even to save it from itself, doesnt mean to disdain and disavow it. Theres a difference between taming a horse and shooting it.Until about, oh, a year ago, few Democrats would have disagreed. Not anymore. Moderate Democrats are by no means an endangered species, but increasingly they act like a hunted one. Watching Hickenlooper, you could read his mind as if it were a chyron at the foot of the screen. Dont say proud capitalist, John. Dont say it. Twitter will kill me if I do. Death by Twitter mob  or pre-emptive surrender to it  is how politics is largely conducted these days.Is this good politics? I doubt it. As Geoffrey Kabaservice noted in the Guardian last November, Nearly all of the Democrats who flipped the seats of moderate Republicans are themselves moderate. Few support the socialist agenda of Senator Bernie Sanders. Progressive favorites like Andrew Gillum lost his race against a weak Republican opponent. And Joe Biden tops most Democratic primary polls by a wide margin. Its also especially bad politics for someone like Hickenlooper, who cant get away with filibustering about the merits of capitalism if he hopes to get near the nomination. To the extent that Sanderss concept of democratic socialism has gained traction, its not because capitalism has failed the masses. Its because Sanders, beyond any of his peers, has consistent convictions and an authentic persona. To prevail, a moderate Democrat will need to behave likewise. The message can go like this: Capitalism has worked for millions of Americans. It worked for me. We need to reform it so it can work for everyone.Is Hickenlooper the guy to do this? Doubtful. Then again, Donald Trump is gearing up to run a campaign based on a thriving economy (check), a country at peace (check), a mess of congressional investigations that will quickly confuse and bore the public (check), Democrats who want to turn Silicon Valley into a giant utility (check), an inconclusive Mueller report (likely check), and a Democratic Party that can neither bring itself to censure an anti-Semitic congresswoman nor publicly embrace the free-market system (check, check).Democrats still seem to think 2020 is going to be a referendum on the president. Its not. Its going to be a choice. Right now, the Trump campaign could hardly ask for a bigger favor from its overconfident opponents.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.  @BretStephensNYT  Facebook Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byGood Tuesday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today._____________________ House Republican leaders removed Representative Steve King of Iowa from powerful committee posts on Monday, after Mitch McConnell suggested he find another line of work and Mitt Romney said he should resign. The punishment came after Mr. King, who has a long history of racist remarks, made comments to The Times last week questioning why white supremacy was considered offensive. Several times last year, President Trump said privately that he wanted to withdraw from NATO, senior officials told The Times. A former under secretary of defense said an American pullout from NATO would be the wildest success that Vladimir Putin could dream of. Mr. Trump rejected a proposal from the Republican senator Lindsey Graham to temporarily reopen the government in an effort to jump-start talks with Democrats on funding a border wall. In the heart of Trump country, some furloughed federal workers are still backing the presidents demand for a wall, keeping Republican senators in line as the shutdown stretches on. Private donors put up $107 million for Mr. Trumps inauguration two years ago. It is now clear how the money was used. Trade policies and tariffs designed to help the farm and steel industries have done anything but. Farmers now have to deal with higher costs and loss of access to some markets, while steel prices in the United States have fallen back to pre-tariff levels. Trying to calm Democrats fears, William P. Barr, Mr. Trumps nominee for attorney general, promised he would let the special counsel finish his investigation. But Mr. Barr is still under pressure to renounce his hostility toward whistle-blowers. Ivanka Trump, the presidents eldest daughter, will assist Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, in choosing the next president of the World Bank. Senator Bernie Sanders, hoping to contain the damage from reports of sexism and harassment in his 2016 campaign, plans to meet with former staff members who want assurances that things will change if he runs again. A key question for the Democrats potential presidential field is which candidate will be the best antidote to Trumpism. Liberals may want to apply policy litmus tests; moderates may just want a winner. Raj Shah, a top White House spokesman, has left to lead the press wing of a Florida-based lobbying firm._____________________Todays On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grulln Paz in New York.Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Is there anything you think were missing? Anything you want to see more of? Wed love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
Paul Manaforts Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dads Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: Coal Mining Isnt Coming BackHouse Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab SpringCan The President Be Impeached? We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael SchwirtzOne of President Trumps lead Middle East peace negotiators lashed out at the Palestinian Authority on Friday, accusing it of institutionalizing support for terrorism amid a dispute over Israeli tax transfers that make up a significant portion of Palestinian revenues.Under longstanding accords, Israel makes monthly transfers to the Palestinian Authority from certain taxes it collects related to Palestinians. Last month, Israel announced a freeze on about 5 percent of the tax payout, as punishment for the Palestinian Authoritys policy of paying stipends to Palestinian prisoners in Israel and to the families of Palestinians killed or wounded in confrontations with Israelis.In response, and despite the authoritys financial problems, the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, rejected the full tax transfer and vowed to continue to pay the stipends.On Friday, the Trump administrations Middle East envoy, Jason D. Greenblatt, accused Palestinian leaders of offering the stipends as a reward for acts of terrorism.If your citizens were being routinely attacked by terrorists, which of you would tolerate a reward system that compensated the attackers for their crimes? he wrote in one tweet. How can we possibly censure Israel for taking the same stance?Mr. Greenblatt was in New York on Friday for discussions on the dispute in a closed-door session of the United Nations Security Council, which apparently failed to break the impasse.Mansour al-Otaibi, Kuwaits ambassador to the United Nations, told reporters after the session that most members of the Security Council overwhelmingly considered the Israeli decision unacceptable.This is Palestinian money, he said. They have the right, the Palestinians, to do whatever they want with their money.The tax revenues are generated from the earnings of Palestinian day laborers and merchants who do business in Israel, and from customs duties on Palestinian imports through Israeli ports. But the payouts, which some critics have dubbed a pay to slay policy, have long been a source of controversy in Israel.In July, the Israeli Knesset, or Parliament, approved legislation that would allow the government to withhold a portion of the tax revenue, which makes up about 7 percent of the Palestinian Authoritys annual budget.The Palestinian Authoritys refusal to accept any of the revenues only adds to its financial woes. It was already struggling after a decision last year by the Trump administration to cut funding for a United Nations agency that provides assistance to millions of Palestinians.The Trump administrations hard-line tactics have been led by the presidents son-in-law and adviser Jared Kushner, in an effort to force Palestinians to return to the negotiating table and drop many of their longstanding demands. Such discussions have largely been paused while Mr. Kushner and Mr. Greenblatt put the finishing touches on a long-awaited peace plan.Their eventual proposal, however, could be dead on arrival: The Palestinian Authority has refused to discuss the plan with American negotiators, in protest over the Trump administrations decision in December 2017 to formally recognize Jerusalem as Israels capital and move the United States Embassy there from Tel Aviv.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported bywith interestBy Charlotte CowlesWant this column in your inbox? Sign up here.Welcome to your quick and painless summary of tech and business news. You dont need reminding that its the shortest weekend of the year; make the most of it.MARCH 3-9Facebook, the platform known for sharing your personal information with the world whether you like it or not, is going for a more discreet vibe these days. The companys chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, wants to nudge users toward private messaging and away from blasting their networks with status updates, a trend he says is already underway. He likened his new vision, which will integrate other Facebook-owned platforms like Instagram and WhatsApp, to a digital living room where people can have intimate discussions secure from outsiders. (He emphasized the term encrypted.) Its unclear how this pivot will affect Facebooks business model, and critics have pointed out the obvious paradox of a company known for playing fast and loose with users data suddenly espousing privacy protection.Yet another sign that the countrys economy may be cooling: Februarys disappointing jobs numbers. Only 20,000 new jobs were added, far less than the 175,000 that analysts had predicted. Its the weakest report since September 2017, but on the upside, it still marks the 101st consecutive month of growth. Wall Street got good news this past week as regulators eased their oversight of the nations biggest banks. The policy shift is part of the Trump administrations promise to call off the watchdogs put in place after the 2008 financial crisis, rules that the financial industry has criticized as hampering economic growth. While these rollbacks may help stoke markets, they could also lead to a less transparent financial system  and a repeat of past mistakes. Go back to enjoying your pasta: The Italian food impresario Mario Batali has formally exited his dining empire. More than a year after multiple women accused him of sexual harassment and assault, he will no longer profit from the restaurants in any way, shape or form, said Tanya Bastianich Manuali, who will run the remaining 16 establishments in Mr. Batalis former portfolio. She and her brother, Mr. Batalis erstwhile business partner Joe Bastianich, bought the disgraced chefs shares in the Batali & Bastianich Hospitality Group for an undisclosed sum. Mr. Batali will also hand over the keys to Eataly, the chain of Italian food emporiums. MARCH 10-16If youve been holding out for a Tesla that can fit your family and Elon Musks ego, the automaker will unveil its new crossover S.U.V., the Model Y, at the companys Los Angeles design studio this week. Mr. Musk, the chief executive, said that the Model Y will be about 10 percent roomier than the Model 3 sedan, have slightly less battery range and come at a higher price. Tesla could certainly use the revenue boost. In its effort to sell the Model 3 for a long-promised $35,000, its had to lay off workers, close showrooms and cut other costs  moves that have battered its stock price. Wondering what the growing crowd of presidential candidates will be talking about this coming week, in addition to the countrys new record-high trade deficit? Well, President Trump is expected to deliver his budget proposal for 2020 this Monday, about a month late because of the government shutdown earlier this year. Lower tax revenue and increased government spending have driven up annual budget deficits, which now are expected to exceed $1 trillion starting in 2022, according to the Congressional Budget Office. But Mr. Trump is likely to play down those numbers and focus on spending cuts instead. Its understandable if youve been ignoring the Brexit commotion; all that back-and-forth was getting tedious. But now is the time to start paying attention, as talks come down to the wire. Britains House of Commons will vote on the latest version of Prime Minister Theresa Mays Brexit plan this Tuesday. If it is rejected  as it probably will be  then Parliament will vote on whether to leave the European Union without a deal or to delay Britains departure beyond the original March 29 deadline. Either way, the path doesnt look smooth, and the European Central Bank is bracing itself. On Thursday, it abruptly reversed course and revived its stimulus measures.Uber will not be held criminally liable for the death of a woman who was hit by a self-driving test car in Arizona last year, although its safety driver  who was sitting in the drivers seat at the time of the accident  still could face charges. In other news, a new cosmetics deal has made Kylie Jenner, at 21 years old, the worlds youngest self-made billionaire (the self-made label is up for debate, but hey, the moneys real). Perhaps shell buy this Bugatti, which set a record last week as the worlds most expensive car at $19 million.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Charlie Savage, Nicholas Fandos and Katie BennerWASHINGTON  William P. Barr, President Trumps nominee for attorney general, assured senators at his confirmation hearing on Tuesday that he would permit the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, to complete the Russia investigation and said he was determined to resist any pressure from Mr. Trump to use law enforcement for political purposes.Mr. Barr, whose confirmation seems virtually assured, pointed to his age and background  he served as attorney general from 1991 to 1993  as buffers to potential intrusions on the Justice Departments traditional independence. He suggested he had no further political aspirations that might cloud his judgment, the way that future ambitions might give pause to a younger nominee, as well as the experience to fight political interference.I am in a position in life where I can provide the leadership necessary to protect the independence and reputation of the department, Mr. Barr, 68, told the Senate Judiciary Committee, adding that he would not hesitate to resign if Mr. Trump pushed him to act improperly.I will not be bullied into doing anything I think is wrong  by anybody, whether it be editorial boards or Congress or the president, Mr. Barr said. Im going to do what I think is right.He also pledged that he would refuse any order from Mr. Trump either to fire Mr. Mueller without good cause in violation of regulations or to rescind those rules first.It is in the best interest of everyone  the president, Congress and, most importantly, the American people  that this matter be resolved by allowing the special counsel to complete his work, Mr. Barr said.Mr. Barrs first stint as attorney general came under President George Bush, who was known for his prudent and measured approach. If confirmed, Mr. Barr would serve under a president hardly known for self-restraint. Mr. Trump repeatedly excoriated Jeff Sessions, the former attorney general, for recusing himself from the Russia investigation, which Mr. Trump has called a witch hunt, and pushed him to open criminal investigations into political adversaries like Hillary Clinton.[President Trump says he alone can do it. His attorney general nominee usually agrees.]Over hours of testimony, Mr. Barr displayed a grasp of policy and demonstrated his experience as a Washington hand and member of the Republican legal establishment. He is expected to be confirmed, both because Republicans control the Senate and because Democrats are deeply suspicious of Matthew G. Whitaker, the acting attorney general whom Mr. Trump installed after ousting Mr. Sessions in November.Mr. Barr is qualified by any reasonable standard, Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and the committees chairman, said after the hearing, adding that he saw no reason to doubt Mr. Barr would be confirmed. And if hes not qualified, I dont know who they are ever going to pick.During his testimony, Mr. Barr described being asked whether he was interested in joining Mr. Trumps defense team in June 2017 by a friend of the presidents. Although Mr. Barr agreed to meet with Mr. Trump  and told him, he said, that Mr. Mueller was both a personal friend and a straight shooter who should be dealt with as such  he declined to join his legal team.My wife and I were sort of looking forward to a bit of respite, and I didnt want to stick my head into that meat grinder, Mr. Barr said.Asked by Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, why as a rational person he would want the job after seeing Mr. Trumps unrelenting criticism of Mr. Sessions, Mr. Barr portrayed himself as an institutionalist.Because I love the department and all its components, including the F.B.I., Mr. Barr said. I think they are critical institutions that are essential to preserving the rule of law, which is the heartbeat of this country.Mr. Barrs testimony also touched on many other issues.Regarding Mr. Trumps demand for funding for a border wall, which has prompted the longest government shutdown in American history, Mr. Barr expressed qualified support for expanding barriers along the border with Mexico where they could be part of common sense immigration enforcement. But he sidestepped questions about whether Mr. Trump could lawfully redirect military funds to build a wall without congressional authorization, as the president has threatened to invoke emergency powers to do.Asked by Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, about remarks he made in 2005 defending the George W. Bush administrations enhanced interrogation techniques program and the idea that it was lawful to use pain, discomfort and other things to make people talk so long as it does not cross the line to torture, Mr. Barr said he would obey and uphold a 2015 law restricting American interrogators to using only those techniques listed in the Army Field Manual.Under questioning about whether he had sought to push out the deputy attorney general, Rod J. Rosenstein, who is widely expected to leave if Mr. Barr is confirmed, the nominee said he had not  and, indeed, had asked Mr. Rosenstein to stay on longer for a transition period.And he assured senators from both parties that his views on the criminal justice system had evolved from the early 1990s, when he advocated stiffer sentences for drug offenders, and that he would fully carry out substantial sentencing and prison law changes passed last month.But the hearing repeatedly returned to Russias attempts to manipulate the American election process and the open investigation by Mr. Mueller into Moscows campaign of subversion  and possible links to Mr. Trump and his associates.Early in the hearing, Mr. Graham brought up the F.B.I.s newly revealed counterintelligence investigation into whether the president was working with the Russians, asking incredulously whether Mr. Barr had heard of such a thing in all the time you have been associated with the department.When Mr. Barr answered that he had not, Mr. Graham sought and obtained Mr. Barrs assurance that he would look into who opened the investigation into the president at the F.B.I. or the Justice Department and to tell the committee whether it was appropriate.Later, Mr. Barr also defended as entirely proper his decision to write an unsolicited, lengthy memo to the Trump administration legal team in June arguing that laws against obstruction of justice cannot criminalize a presidents use of his constitutional powers  like when Mr. Trump fired James B. Comey as F.B.I. director.Insisting he had not been not trying to ingratiate himself with the Trump administration by writing the memo, Mr. Barr played it down as based on mere speculation about the basis for Mr. Muellers obstruction inquiry. He said that he believed that other potential actions by a president, like witness tampering, would be a legitimate basis for an obstruction investigation.In any case, Mr. Barr repeatedly said he would let Mr. Mueller, whom he described as a friend of his for decades, finish his work and dismissed Mr. Trumps attacks on the inquiry.I dont believe Mr. Mueller would be involved in a witch hunt, Mr. Barr said. But in another moment, he called Mr. Trumps use of that term understandable and refused to criticize the presidents attacks on Mr. Mueller and the Justice Department.Mr. Barr also appeared to emphasize a softer vision of presidential power than the unusually expansive view he has largely advanced throughout his career  for example, previously portraying the president instead of the attorney general as the nations top law-enforcement official, who wields unfettered power to start or stop a law enforcement proceeding.His philosophy on executive authority has raised the question of whether his permissive theories would unleash Mr. Trump. But in several ways on Tuesday, Mr. Barr appeared to walk back or qualify some of his earlier writings, putting greater emphasis on the Justice Departments independence and legal limits on the presidency.For example, Mr. Barr said that if a president directed the department to close an investigation to protect himself or his family, that would violate the Constitution. And asked by Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, whether a president could pardon someone in exchange for a promise not to incriminate him, Mr. Barr said, That would be a crime.He also pledged to seek the advice of ethics lawyers in the Justice Department about whether he should recuse himself from overseeing the Russia inquiry, while stopping short of committing to accepting their recommendation. Late last year, Justice Department ethics officials recommended to Mr. Whitaker that he recuse himself from overseeing that investigation, but Mr. Whitaker declined to do so.Separately, Representative Jerrold Nadler, Democrat of New York and the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, announced in a letter on Tuesday that Mr. Whitaker had agreed to testify publicly before his committee on Feb. 8, regardless of the status of the border wall impasse or whether or not the Senate has confirmed a new attorney general. The hearing promises to be a blockbuster session, and should turn on many of the same questions Mr. Barr faced, including about Mr. Mueller.The fate of Mr. Muellers findings  an expected report  was a recurring topic. Mr. Barr said that Mr. Muellers report to the attorney general would be confidential, but that the attorney general would then produce his own report to Congress based on that material. He said that he intended to be as transparent as possible given grand jury secrecy rules, but that he would not let the White House edit or change it, as the presidents lawyer Rudolph W. Giuliani had suggested might occur.That will not happen, Mr. Barr said.Adam Goldman and Michael S. Schmidt contributed reporting.On Twitter, following Charlie Savage @charlie_savage, Nicholas Fandos @npfandos and Katie Benner @ktbenner.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byElected officials have made a lot of noise about the cost of prescription drugs. Now they must demand answers from pharmaceutical companies.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.Twenty-five years ago, Congress hauled before it the top executives of the nations seven largest tobacco companies and forced them to make a number of long-overdue admissions about cigarettes  including that they might cause cancer and heart disease and that the executives had suppressed evidence of their addictive potential. In one dramatic exchange, when pressed by Representatives Henry Waxman and Ron Wyden, the executives denied that their products were addictive but admitted that they would not want their own children to use them.The hearing ushered in a public health victory for the ages. In its wake, lawmakers and health officials enacted measures that would ultimately bring smoking rates in the United States to an all-time low.With seven pharmaceutical executives set to testify before the Senate Finance Committee on Tuesday, one can only hope for a similarly pivotal moment for prescription drug prices. Like their predecessors in the tobacco industry, the drug makers will testify at a time of near-universal anger over industry antics.Drug prices are soaring in a way that defies reason. A vial of insulin that cost less than $200 a decade ago now sells for closer to $1,500. Actimmune, a drug that treats severe malignant osteopetrosis and sells for less than $350 for a one-month supply in Britain, costs $26,000 for a one-month supply in the United States. And the prices of many drugs  that treat cancers, high blood pressure, allergies and more have risen so much that average consumers are rationing them, at grave peril. Not even experts seem to know how those prices are set or why they keep rising. The industrys own explanations  that other entities in Americas byzantine health care system are to blame for most price increases, and that its products are expensive and risky to make  are tough to swallow, given drug companies conspicuous profit margins. Its response to the crisis of soaring drug prices has been meager at best  and duplicitous at worst. Last year, several companies agreed to hold off on planned price increases, but only for six months, and only after President Trump chastised them on Twitter. Those same companies have aggressively resisted both state and federal efforts to enact formal changes to drug pricing rules.Mr. Trump has not kept his campaign promise to negotiate like crazy with drug makers to lower the cost of their products, and his statement last May that the industry would soon announce voluntary, massive price cuts came to naught. But his bluster on the issue, along with his blueprint for resolving it, have at least helped to keep a spotlight on the pharmaceutical industry and its questionable practices.If the members of the Senate Finance Committee want to make use of that spotlight, heres what to ask executives on Tuesday:How do you determine list prices for drugs? Who decides the factors that go into the companies drug-pricing formulas, and why cant those formulas be made public? Senators should also ask Olivier Brandicourt, the chief executive of Sanofi  the only major insulin maker scheduled to participate in the hearing  why the cost of insulin continues to rise year after year, given that the drug has been available for roughly a century, and in many cases still enjoys patent protection. On Friday, Senator Chuck Grassley and now-Senator Wyden, the ranking members on the Finance Committee, opened an investigation into insulin prices. Whats a fair profit margin for lifesaving products? A common lament among pharmaceutical executives has been that without enough profit from one drug, companies cant afford to make the next one. Thats a fair point. Still, many leading companies enjoy billions of dollars a year in pure profit, even as lives are put at risk for want of basic medications. Insurers are subject to a 15 to 20 percent cap on profits and administrative expenses. Congress should consider a similar requirement for certain prescription drugs. How much do you spend on research and development, and where do those dollars go? Pharmaceutical companies routinely argue that drug prices are high because research and development is expensive and because any successful drug is preceded by many failures. Industry critics, however, note that a good deal of basic research is funded by the federal government, through the National Institutes of Health, and not by the drug makers. Many leading drug makers spend most of their research dollars looking for new uses of existing drugs, not on risky innovations. And independent studies show that research and development costs for drug companies are not large enough to explain high drug prices. Why would any drug need more than 100 patents? Patent protection enables drug makers to recoup the money they spend developing and marketing a new product. But most experts agree that leading drug makers have gamed this system: By applying for dozens of patents for minor technical tweaks that provide little clinical benefit, they stave off competition for decades.Take Humira, which treats inflammatory disorders like arthritis and Crohns disease, and is the best-selling prescription drug in the world. In the two decades since the drug came on the market, its maker has applied for 247 patents, according the Initiative for Medicines, Access and Knowledge; it is currently protected from competition by more than 100 such patents. Richard Gonzalez, the C.E.O. of AbbVie, the company that makes Humira, will appear at Tuesdays hearing. Can he justify that practice?What will you change? The senators must not allow drug makers to point the finger elsewhere on Tuesday. Yes, insurance companies and other entities play a role in the drug cost crisis. But this hearing is not about them. Its about the pharmaceutical companies. And those companies need to take meaningful steps toward lowering drug prices. If the Finance Committee members come prepared on Tuesday, they could finally force the industry to help relieve the strain.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.An earlier version of this editorial misstated the number of active patents for Humira. AbbVie, the company that makes Humira, has more than 100 patents for the drug, not 247.An earlier version of this editorial misstated the condition for which thedrug Actimmune is prescribed. It is severe malignant osteopetrosis, not malignant osteoperosis.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Lisa LererHUNTSVILLE, Ala.  After Doug Jones scored an upset win in the Alabama Senate race in 2017, elated Democrats nationwide dreamed of winning in other deeply red corners of the country. Mr. Jones seemed to offer a model, rejecting labels like progressive or conservative and calling himself a Doug Jones Democrat.Now, as the longest government shutdown in history rolls into a fifth week, Mr. Jones finds himself holding the same position as Nancy Pelosi, the liberal House speaker: Reopen the government, then negotiate on border security.Mr. Jones is the only red-state Senate Democrat up for re-election in 2020. By taking on President Trump and the border wall, which are both popular in Alabama, and refusing to give ground on the shutdown, the senator may be the last Doug Jones Democrat to win here anytime soon.Alabama has one of the largest groups of federal workers in the country, and the economic pain of those who are out of work because of the shutdown is rippling through local businesses across the state.I voted for Jones, I did, said Ann Lynch, an 86-year-old retired schoolteacher, as she did her grocery shopping wrapped in a fur coat on a brisk afternoon in Huntsville, where more than half of the local economy is tied to federal spending. But he doesnt support the wall. I dont like that, of course. I think we need it. Trump knows we need it.Mr. Joness opposition also underscores the challenge Mr. Trump faces in fulfilling one of his key campaign promises, and the fierce partisanship that has come to define the stalled shutdown negotiations. If the president cant convince a Democrat from Alabama  the most vulnerable senator up for re-election in 2020  to back his wall, who can he sway?Im just not going to throw money at anybody who is with a gun to my head, Mr. Jones said in an interview, referring to Mr. Trumps $5.7 billion request for the wall. Lets get the government open.In Huntsville, the impact of empty offices at NASAs Marshall Space Flight Center on the Armys Redstone Arsenal base has rippled through the contractors, restaurants and hotels that power Rocket City. With 5,000 workers furloughed across the state, the pain is being felt by people like Angie Gates, whose small family restaurant lost out on $600 worth of lunch business recently because a prison training program was shut down during the wall standoff.For us, because were a small town, the shutdown is kind of difficult. But theres also things in politics that may be worth doing, said Ms. Gates. If Doug Jones doesnt support the wall, I dont support him.Democrats argue that the politics of the shutdown favor their party, pointing to surveys showing that a majority of Americans blame the president for the stalemate and oppose the wall.But that political calculus may not hold for Mr. Jones, who won a special election to fill the seat vacated by Jeff Sessions when he was appointed attorney general. Polling also shows that support for the wall among conservatives, who make up much of Alabamas electorate, has remained strong during the shutdown. Even supporters of Mr. Jones think hes in trouble.Hes a dead man walking, said former Representative Parker Griffith, a conservative Democrat who helped Mr. Jones in his election and continues to support him. He leaned into his base, and his base is not big enough to elect him.The partisanship that has become a hallmark of the Trump era has not been kind to moderate Democrats: Of the five other Democrats from Trump-supporting red states who were in the Senate when Mr. Jones arrived last year, three lost their 2018 re-election bids after opposing Mr. Trump on various fronts, including the confirmation of Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court.One who survived last year, Senator Joe Manchin of West Virginia, has stood closer to Mr. Trump on the border wall than any other Democrat in the Senate, running an ad during his campaign touting his support for the proposal and saying he would back a presidential declaration of a state of emergency, if it would end the shutdown.Mr. Jones has adopted a different playbook. While he has voted with Mr. Trump half of the time, according to the website FiveThirtyEight, more than nearly any other Senate Democrat, he has stood with national Democrats on high-profile issues, including opposing Justice Kavanaugh. He used his first speech on the Senate floor to call for new gun control measures, tackling an issue that has long been anathema to many Southern Democrats.Democrats hope voters will value Mr. Joness decision to stick with his gut when it comes to difficult political issues, even if that means siding with the national party.Hes a guy whos going to be true to himself, said John Anzalone, a Birmingham-based Democratic pollster. Authenticity is what sells in a place like Alabama.But theres also little question that Mr. Jones hit the political jackpot with his special election in 2017 by facing Roy S. Moore, an already-controversial Republican opponent who became all but radioactive after charges of sexual assault against underage girls. Even with that baggage, Mr. Jones beat Mr. Moore by only about 20,000 votes.A number of Republican officials in the state, including Representative Bradley Byrne and the Alabama State Senate president pro tempore, Del Marsh, are considering challenging Mr. Jones next year. None have the liabilities of Mr. Moore, who motivated a surge of black Democratic voters while prompting some Alabama Republicans to cross party lines and others to stay home from the polls.On top of those local challenges, Mr. Jones will also be running against the backdrop of the 2020 presidential election, a contest that will both highlight the national Democratic platform and bring out conservative voters eager to support the president.Even some of his supporters dont expect to be represented by Mr. Jones for much longer.Senator Jones, bless his heart, hell be a one-term senator, said Sheila Pressnell, 61, as she walked through a Huntsville shopping center popular with employees of NASA and other government agencies. The only reason he got it was because he was up against a child predator.In the interview, Mr. Jones said he is seeking bipartisan solutions to the shutdown, saying the debate is just nothing but political noise right now and blaming both parties for the stalemate.Republicans from his state have taken a starkly different approach.The president is not going to blink, and he shouldnt, said Senator Richard C. Shelby, Mr. Joness Republican colleague in the Senate, adding that he would tell furloughed federal workers to get your Democrat friends to the table and negotiate with us.While shutdowns rarely determine the outcome of elections that come months or years later, the current political climate delivers a political double whammy to Mr. Joness standing in the state, as some voters blame Congress, bitter that lawmakers are collecting paychecks as government workers struggle, and others want the border wall.Sandra Snell, a Transportation Security Administration agent at the Huntsville International Airport, said she doesnt believe anyone in Washington understands the economic struggles she now faces. Before the shutdown, she was preparing to sign a loan on a new house. Now, shes worried about paying her bills.Youre a federal employee, Im a federal employee, Ms. Snell, 51, said she would like to tell members of Congress. Im having to go to work without pay. Youre going to work with pay. Id like to see my check, too.In Huntsville, local lenders and utilities are offering ways for furloughed workers to negotiate lower rates. Restaurants near the base say they have seen a nearly 50 percent drop in customers since the shutdown began. Churches offer counseling for furloughed workers. Food banks are stocking up on nonperishable, hearty fare like pasta, beans and tuna. And pawn shops are doing brisk business.Mr. Jones has been working with constituents to help them find services, and he has been an active presence on television and on the Senate floor pushing for a resolution. He has pushed to meet with Mr. Trump, saying the White House should come and brief members of Congress beyond just the party leadership.But for some in Alabama, the crisis offers another reminder to voters that Mr. Jones doesnt back the president  or his top campaign promise. Pam McGriff, the owner of a custom interior car detailing shop in Holly Pond, didnt vote in Mr. Joness first election but said she would consider supporting him in 2020 if he supported Mr. Trump.If he would go up there and balk the Democrats, like Schumer and Pelosi, and say, Hey, I think Trump is right, and all that kind of stuff, I wouldnt mind splitting my ticket, said Ms. McGriff, 56, a Republican.Her husband, Wayne, disagreed, saying that sitting out Mr. Joness election wasnt a choice he would be likely to repeat after watching the senator in office.He should support what the people of Alabama want, which is the wall, he said. He shouldnt be there, and next time hell be voted out.Advertisement"
"Given the actors long history in show business and political causes, it is all the more baffling to friends that he would risk so much.Jussie Smollett lives above and just to the north of where he claimed he was attacked at North New Street and East North Water Street.CreditCreditSupported byBy Jack Healy, Michael Cooper and Serge F. KovaleskiPhotographs by Alyssa SchukarCHICAGO  Ever since he was a child actor growing up in a show-business family, Jussie Smolletts life blended activism with the make-believe worlds of television and movies.As he got his early breaks in a television mini-series and Disneys 1992 hockey comedy The Mighty Ducks, and did press junkets for a short-lived ABC sitcom starring him and his five siblings, Mr. Smollett was also steeped in causes like AIDS activism and ending apartheid. He spoke of his mothers closeness with the Black Panthers and prominent civil-rights leaders, and how she had encouraged Mr. Smollett and his brothers and sisters to create art and live out their beliefs.But now, fantasy and politics have collided in a way that has upended everything Mr. Smollett worked for. He is facing prison time and widespread public scorn over accusations that he concocted and carried out a false attack with racist and anti-gay details, capitalizing on broader anxieties about hate crimes under President Trump.Given his long history in show business, it is all the more baffling to friends and associates that Mr. Smollett, who is black and openly gay, would risk so much on a story that seems to have crumbled under intense scrutiny by police investigators.The Chicago police say that Mr. Smollett had been upset over his salary and wanted to stir up publicity when he filed a police report saying that two masked men had beaten him and thrown a noose around his neck as he walked home at 2 a.m. on Jan. 29, in the wealthy Streeterville neighborhood of downtown Chicago.According to police and court records, Mr. Smollett staged the attack as if he were a director putting on his first play. He paid two brothers who had worked on Empire $3,500, asked them to buy ski masks and a noose to use as props and told them which epithets to hurl when they attacked him. The police say Mr. Smollett even scoped out neighborhood security cameras to ensure the assault would be recorded.Mr. Smolletts lawyers say he is innocent, but his career now hangs in doubt after Empire executive producers wrote him off the seasons final two episodes, and his tale of hatred and racism has instead become a cultural brawl over deception and fake news.The Hollywood friends who rallied behind Mr. Smollett the loudest are now struggling with where to place their allegiance  with their outspoken friend Jussie, or with the Chicago Police Department, an agency long criticized for its treatment of black people. In this case, though, the police laid out an unusually expansive and detailed timeline that appears to undermine Mr. Smolletts claims.I stand with Jussie, under the principle that he is family to me, and hes always stood for me, said Ralph Harris, who starred with Mr. Smollett and Mr. Smolletts five siblings on a short-lived 1994 ABC sitcom, On Our Own, about orphaned children trying to stay together by outwitting the authorities.But Im a realist, and I respect law, and I respect what Ive been seeing and hearing as well of the investigation  although Chicago does have its reputation, Mr. Harris added. But what I say in that case is if this is something that hes responsible for, I stand by him  because then we need to get him help.Conservatives who had publicly doubted the story from the start seized on the criminal charges against Mr. Smollett as evidence that the news media and liberals would credulously run with any narrative that tarnished Mr. Trump and his supporters.Democratic politicians and liberal supporters of Mr. Smollett who had called the assault a modern-day lynching and an example of the rise in hate crimes since Mr. Trumps election are now grappling with feelings of shock, anger, confusion and shame. Activists worry that victims of hate crimes will now face greater skepticism, or might not report future crimes at all.Jussie Smollett understood this moment, and understood the heightened sensitivity to hate, to racism, to homophobia, and sought to manipulate it to his own benefit, said David Axelrod, who covered Chicago politics as a journalist long before becoming a top adviser to President Barack Obama.For Mr. Smollett, arts and activism were intertwined throughout his childhood.His parents met while campaigning for civil rights in the Bay Area of California, and his mother had worked with the founders of the Black Panthers and prominent civil-rights leaders, according to a New York Times interview with Mr. Smollett in 2016. Between child-acting gigs and press junkets that the six siblings did for their 1994 ABC sitcom, their mother, Janet Smollett, made sure the children played sports and read about figures like Malcolm X and Langston Hughes, she told The Los Angeles Times in 1994. (His family did not respond to phone or email messages.)I know their mother, Janet, has always taught them to stand up for themselves, and for what they believe, Mr. Harris said. They seemed like they were beyond their years.Mr. Smollett embraced social movements. He worked for Artists for a New South Africa. He served on the board of directors of the Black AIDS Institute, and grew outspoken as Black Lives Matter took shape. In 2017, Mr. Smollett released a politically charged single, F.U.W., a sort of resistance anthem with a black-and-white video taking aim at the Trump administration and white male privilege.His breakout role was Jamal Lyon, a talented member of the Empire hip-hop dynasty who struggles to get his family to accept that he is gay.When Mr. Smollett learned that the shows creator Lee Daniels was casting the role, he sent a direct message to Mr. Daniels saying that he sang, acted, danced and wrote music, Mr. Smollett told Entertainment Weekly. Mr. Smollett said he had promised Mr. Daniels that I am Jamal Lyon in more ways than one. He got an audition, and he got the part.Mr. Smollett reportedly earned between $65,000 and $100,000 per episode, and had not previously raised objections about his salary to Fox, which broadcasts the show, people familiar with the show have told The Times.But the Chicago police superintendent, Eddie T. Johnson, said that Mr. Smollett had been dissatisfied with the money he was making and decided to do something about it.On Jan. 25, Mr. Smollett sent a text message to a friend, Abimbola Osundairo, who had worked as a stand-in for the love interest of Mr. Smolletts Empire character. Mr. Smollett had befriended and worked out with Mr. Osundairo, a bodybuilder and former college football player, and that morning, Mr. Smollett had a mission in mind, according to court documents.Might need your help on the low, he texted. You around to meet up and talk face to face?As the two men drove around Chicago together, Mr. Smollett said he was dissatisfied with how the Empire studio had responded to a threatening letter he said he had received on Jan. 22 at the Chicago facility where the show films. The letter was laced with a powder  determined to be crushed ibuprofen  and said Smollett Jussie you will die black, followed by an anti-gay slur, according to prosecutors. It has been turned over to the F.B.I.Superintendent Johnson later said at a news conference that Mr. Smollett had actually sent the letter to himself as a way to get attention.According to prosecutors, Mr. Smollett told Mr. Osundairo that he wanted to stage an attack on himself and cast him and his older brother, Olabinjo, who had been an extra on Empire. The brothers are of Nigerian descent, but were born in the United States.The Osundairos  who go by Abel and Ola  were struggling financially on the outer edges of show business. They had each declared bankruptcy in September 2016 and had been weighed down by credit-card debt and student loans.The brothers lived together in a small apartment on a busy boulevard on Chicagos North Side, and had been trying to develop business ventures that married physical fitness, entertainment and their religious faith. John King Johnson, a friend, described them as inseparable.They have always had an acting dream and it seems like it has grown over the years, said Devin Allen, another friend who played college football with the brothers at Quincy University in southwestern Illinois. Referring to Olabinjo, whom he was closer to, he said: Nobody is perfect. Nobody has a spotless past. He was temporarily overcome at the time with whatever he was tempted with, like money.After Mr. Smollett reported the attack, investigators painstakingly used security-camera footage and records from taxi cabs and a rideshare to identify the brothers and track their movements that freezing cold night. They were detained and questioned by the police, but have not been charged and are acting as cooperating witnesses in the case.Across Chicago, the whipsawing anger was still raw for observers who watched Mr. Smollett walk silently out of court this week and disappear into a dark-windowed SUV.Im disgusted, said JaMal Green, a community organizer on Chicagos South Side, who offered prayers of support for Mr. Smollett on the day that news of the attack broke. Those of us who wanted to give him the benefit of the doubt, who wanted to listen and support him, it pushes us up against the wall.Jack Healy and Serge F. Kovaleski reported from Chicago, and Michael Cooper from New York. Reporting was contributed by Monica Davey and Julie Bosman from Chicago and Sopan Deb and John Koblin from New York. Susan Beachy contributed research.Jack Healy is a Colorado-based national correspondent who focuses on rural places and life outside America's City Limits signs. He has worked in Iraq and Afghanistan and is a graduate of the University of Missouris journalism school.  @jackhealynyt  Facebook Michael Cooper covers classical music and dance. He was previously a national correspondent; a political reporter covering presidential campaigns; and a metro reporter covering the police, City Hall and Albany.  @coopnytimes  Facebook Serge Kovaleski is an investigative reporter on the National Desk. He joined The Times in 2006, and was part of the team awarded the 2009 Pulitzer Prize for Breaking News for the coverage of the Eliot Spitzer prostitution scandal.

  @sergenyt Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThis isnt just a public health crisis. Its a public sanity one.By Frank BruniOpinion ColumnistHow many studies do you have to throw at the vaccine hysterics before they quit? How much of a scientific consensus, how many unimpeachable experts and how exquisitely rational an argument must you present?Thats a trick question, of course. Theres no magic number. Theres no number, period. And thats because the anti-vaccine crowd (or anti-vaxxers) arent trafficking in anything as concrete, mundane and quaint as facts. Theyre not really engaged in a debate about medicine. Theyre immersed in a world of conspiracies, in the dark shadows where no data can be trusted, nothing is what it seems and those who buy the party line are pitiable sheep.And, boy, are they living at the right time, when so much information and misinformation swirl by so quickly that its easy to confuse the two and even easier to grab hold and convince yourself of whatever it is you prefer to believe. With Google searches, you find the ostensible proof you seek. On social media, you bask in all the affirmation you could possibly want.The parents who are worried or sure about grave risks from vaccines reflect a broader horror that has flickered or flared in everything from the birther movement to Pizzagate, that nonsense about children as Democratic sex slaves in the imagined basement of a Washington pizza joint. Their recklessness and the attendant re-emergence of measles arent just a public health crisis. Theyre a public sanity one, emblematic of too many peoples willful disregard of evidence, proud suspicion of expertise and estrangement from reason.[Get a more personal, less conventional take on political developments, newsmakers, cultural milestones and more with Frank Brunis exclusive commentary every week. Sign up for his newsletter.]Again and again, until blue in the face, medical authorities have debunked the renegade assertion that theres a link between the M.M.R. vaccine, so named because it inoculates against measles, mumps and rubella, and autism. On Tuesday, a group of Danish researchers who looked at more than 650,000 children over 10 years announced that they had found no such association.Again and again, until out of breath, those same medical authorities have also explained why making sure that all or nearly all children are vaccinated is so crucial: It creates a critical mass of resistance, known as herd immunity, that doesnt give a disease the chance to spread.Nonetheless, enough parents plug their ears that the World Health Organization lists vaccine hesitancy  a euphemism if ever I heard one  among 10 global health threats in 2019.They choose their own alternative facts. Take Darla Shine, the wife of Bill Shine, who just announced his resignation as the White House communications director. Last month, amid alarms about new cases of measles, she took to Twitter with the cockamamie claim that not being vaccinated and coming down with measles or mumps was a big-picture plus, a hardiness builder that could help a person fight cancer down the line.I had the #Measles #Mumps #Chickenpox as a child and so did every kid I knew, she tweeted, adding that her own kids were, regrettably, vaccinated. They will never have the lifelong natural immunity I have. Come breathe on me! Thanks but no thanks. I suspect my breath is better spent elsewhere.A week and a half ago, a Republican state representative in Arizona said on her Facebook page that pressure on parents to vaccinate children is not based on American values but, rather, Communist. Bet you didnt know that the original symbol of the Russian Revolution wasnt a hammer and sickle. It was a syringe.I shouldnt joke, and I should add that anti-vaxxers run the political gamut. Theyre on the left, their professed concern for social welfare proven hollow by the risk that their unvaccinated children pose to newborns and others who havent yet been  or cant be  vaccinated. Theyre on the right, among people who see the government and its edicts as oppressive forces. Paranoia has no partisan affiliation.I should also add that alternative facts had currency long before Kellyanne Conway christened them such and that junk science, nutty hypotheses and showy apostasies have been around forever. Humans arent rationalists. Were romantics, and the world is wondrous when you believe that you belong to some brave and special tribe and have experienced enlightenment  about the assassination of John F. Kennedy, about the existence of extraterrestrials, about the 9/11 attack on the World Trade Center, about vaccines  that all the less perceptive, more gullible conformists out there simply cant comprehend.But there are differences now that make the cranks that much more baffling, numerous and pernicious. For starters, they fly ever more stubbornly in the face of sophisticated research and hard-earned knowledge. Beneficiaries of wisdom that prior generations lacked, they toss it away, wasting and mocking progress itself.At the same time, in many educational circles, theres as much talk of students individual truths as of the truth. Joan Donovan, the director of the Technology and Social Change Research Project at Harvards Shorenstein Center, said that social science and history courses increasingly emphasize that truth is situational and that very few things are always true all the time. That healthy skepticism can turn unhealthy when it leads to the rejection of incontestable realities. Theres a crisis of authority, a crisis of expertise, Donovan told me.Theres also a man in the White House, at the Resolute Desk, who makes grand pronouncements based on random conversations; implores Americans to distrust traditional institutions and conventional sources of information; and promotes conspiracy theories (millions of illegal votes, a celebration among Muslims in Jersey City on 9/11, and on and on). He has specifically echoed and validated the apprehensions of anti-vaxxers. Whether hes symptom or cause doesnt matter. Hes dangerous either way.Then theres the internet, which turbocharges everything. I dont want to say its the only force, because there was Holocaust denialism before the internet  there was even AIDS denialism before the internet  but its an enormous, enormous force: the most effective echo chamber in the history of mankind, said Michael Specter, a staff writer for The New Yorker who is the author of the 2009 book Denialism, about irrational thinking. He added, Its very difficult for people, no matter how well educated they are, to parse whats the wheat and whats the chaff on the internet.For example, anti-vaccine propaganda  some of which was spread by Russian trolls and bots as part of their sowing of discord before the 2016 election  can look as official and trustworthy as legitimate information. And as websites get better and Twitter becomes something that people not only look at but rely on, its very difficult to get away from falsehoods and conspiracies, Specter told me. Were living in a world where facts are just another element of your decision-making process. One of the best explanations of that came in a 2016 essay in The Times Magazine by Jonathan Mahler, who noted a radical new relationship between citizen and truth. He wrote that millions of people are abandoning traditional sources of information, from the government to the institutional media, in favor of a D.I.Y. approach to fact-finding.They turn to the internet, which is both a hall of mirrors and an overstuffed bazaar. It lets them customize their input and thus tailor their reality, which is reinforced by the like-minded company they keep online. They become surer that climate change is a hoax, that the deep state plots against the bold warriors who threaten it, that a fake Melania Trump is sometimes used as a substitute for the actual one. And they open the floodgates to so much fiction that fact is swept away.Wheres the vaccine against that?The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.I invite you to sign up for my free weekly email newsletter. You can follow me on Twitter (@FrankBruni). Frank Bruni has been with The Times since 1995 and held a variety of jobs  including White House reporter, Rome bureau chief and chief restaurant critic  before becoming a columnist in 2011. He is the author of three best-selling books.  @FrankBruni  Facebook Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byWe may see a hundred-year storm for turnout.MICHAEL McDONALD, an associate professor of political science at the University of Florida who studies voting data, on high voter interest among Democrats in the 2020 elections.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Matt StevensA 9-year-old United States citizen was detained at a Southern California border checkpoint for more than 30 hours this week while the authorities said they worked to verify her identity.The girl, identified by NBC 7 San Diego as Julia Isabel Amparo Medina, had been making her daily commute from Tijuana, Mexico  where she and her 14-year-old brother, Oscar, live  to school in San Ysidro, Calif., on Monday, the news station said. Because traffic was moving slowly, Julia and Oscar opted to walk across the border rather than wait in the car and risk tardiness, according to NBC 7, which first reported the story.In an email on Friday, a Customs and Border Protection spokesman said two children arrived at one of the San Ysidro port of entry facilities for pedestrians at 10:15 a.m. on Monday. The children, whom the spokesman did not identify, presented a C.B.P. officer with United States passport cards, according to the spokesman, Ralph DeSio.[Read the latest edition of Crossing the Border, a limited-run newsletter about life where the United States and Mexico meet. Sign up here to receive the next issue in your inbox.]The younger child provided inconsistent information during her inspection, and C.B.P. officers took the 9-year-old into custody to perform due diligence in confirming her identity and citizenship, Mr. DeSio said.He did not elaborate on what information was inconsistent, saying only: Some specifics of our techniques for determining the true identity of a person crossing the border are law enforcement sensitive information. In addition, some details of this case are restricted from release due to privacy concerns.A federal official with knowledge of the case who was not authorized to speak about it said the 9-year-old had provided inaccurate information to border agents, which prompted a series of protocols that agents were required to conduct. The need to go through that process and ensure that the girl was not a victim of human trafficking contributed to the length of her detainment, the official said.Eventually, border agents confirmed that the teenager was a United States citizen and he was permitted to enter the country, Mr. DeSio said. Then, around 6:30 p.m. on Tuesday, the 9-year-old girl was admitted to the United States and released to her mother after the authorities confirmed her identity and her citizenship, Mr. DeSio said.C.B.P. prioritizes the safety of the minors we encounter, he said. Its important that C.B.P. officials positively confirm the identity of a child traveling without a parent or legal guardian.The episode involving the children came as the agency is being sued by the American Civil Liberties Union, which filed a lawsuit last month on behalf of two American women who were stopped by a border agent who said he was asking for their identification because he had heard them speaking Spanish.The cases have highlighted concerns over the power of Customs and Border Protection, whose agents have come under increased scrutiny as the Trump administration has sought to keep immigrants from crossing the countrys southern border. Thousands of people travel through the Tijuana-San Ysidro crossing every day for school or work.Julias mother, Thelma Galaxia, told NBC 7 that while Julia was detained, agents accused her of lying about her identity, saying that her passport photo did not look like her. Julia told NBC 7 that the authorities accused her of being her cousin rather than herself, and said she was told that if she would admit that she had lied about her identity she would be released.I was scared, Julia told NBC 7. I was sad because I didnt have my mom or my brother. I was completely by myself.The children also told the station that agents had accused Oscar of smuggling and other crimes.The federal official with knowledge of the case declined to comment on the specific allegations made by Ms. Galaxia and her children but said that, in general, a person who appears to be lying to Customs and Border Protection officers is subject to increased scrutiny.Attempts to reach Ms. Galaxia on Friday were unsuccessful.In a statement, the Consulate General of Mexico in San Diego said that it gave prompt assistance; in this regard, we supported the childs mother within the framework of our consular protection programs, in observance to the protocols of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations.Alain Delaqurire contributed research.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byletterIn the third world, behavior like the presidents would be unacceptable. For it to be happening in America is astonishing.To the Editor:I grew up in South Africa during the apartheid years. Democracy, the rule of law, freedom of the press and treating fellow human beings with dignity and respect were foreign concepts. Those were horrible times. So it is hard to understand why a modern country would allow its leader to ignore foreign interference in its democracy; why it would permit its leader to attack, on a daily basis, its own legal system and freedom of the press; why it would tolerate a leader who seems to take pleasure in treating others with contempt.Even in the third world, this type of behavior would be unacceptable. For it to happen in the first world is astonishing.Indeed, why would America, a country that regards itself as the greatest on earth, allow a pathological liar to be its leader?Perhaps the people of America have yet to understand what most in the third world know well. The problem with a pathological liar is not so much the lies and deception; the problem is that a pathological liar has no conscience.And power without conscience is a very scary thing.Barry van der BergBellville, South AfricaAdvertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Azi Paybarah [Want to get New York Today by email? Here's the sign-up.]Its Wednesday. Happy new year.Weather: Back to winter, with a high around 40 and a flurry or shower overnight.Alternate-side parking: in effect till Jan. 21.Welcome to 2019. Were only two days into the new year, hardly enough time to have abandoned any of our resolutions.While things are going so well, here are the big, thoughtful stories shaping New York that well monitor, before we get distracted with Mandarin ducks and alien light shows.Transportation1. L train shutdown: No L trains between Brooklyn and Manhattan for 15 months starting in April, to fix damage from Superstorm Sandy. New bus, ferry and bike services will help fill the gap.2. Scooters and e-bikes: The City Council wants to legalize more of them but Mayor de Blasio is resisting, citing safety concerns.Criminal Justice3. Recreational marijuana: The governor wants to fast-track legalization. He and the mayor say it will reduce discriminatory policing. Supporters tout the tax revenue, but critics say health concerns remain.Schools4. Integration: Mayor de Blasio wants to increase racial diversity at public schools. This has led to a debate over admission criteria for the citys most competitive schools. The mayor is, in a way, leading from behind.Money5. Minimum wage increase: A million fast-food and other workers in New York City began making at least $15 an hour on Monday. Workers at businesses with under 11 employees will get to $15 an hour at the end of the year.Housing6. Nycha fixes: The decades-long crisis that is the New York City Housing Authority has finally gotten the attention of a federal judge. Can a solution be far behind?Politics7. Democrats take Albany: Governor Cuomo now has a Legislature controlled by lawmakers in his party. That is new for him, and they have not always been his allies.8. Letitia James takes on the Trumps: Ms. James, the states new attorney general and the first black woman elected statewide, has promised to focus on President Trumps questionable financial deals in New York.9. Life of the party: Who will influence Democrats more? Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, supported by progressive activists and a large social media following, or Rep. Hakeem Jeffries, who worked productively with the old guard, while enjoying support from newer, more progressive members?In his address on Ellis Island, Mr. Cuomo rallied the state against President Trump, even as he conspicuously avoided saying his name.Mr. Cuomo pledged to pursue a new justice agenda that would confront a cancer of hatred and division that he said threatened the nation.Earlier, Mr. Cuomo took aim at Mr. Trumps immigration policies, issuing pardons to 22 immigrants.The pictures from the dictators 1959 trip are amazing.The visit, The Times's former executive editor Bill Keller writes, was managed by a public relations firm that had him cuddling babies, licking an ice cream cone and feeding peanuts to elephants at the Bronx Zoo. He even posed with a group of schoolchildren sporting fake beards.No more foam containers: And other new laws in New York in 2019.Before the party: New York City was crowded well before the New Years Eve celebration.Two offices, one man: Until a new public advocate is elected next month, the job will be held by the City Council speaker,  Corey Johnson.Crime falls, mostly: New York remained the nations safest big city in 2018 as most major crimes dropped, but hate crimes and reported rapes are up.No laughing matter: Louis C.K. made fun of Parkland school shooting survivors at an appearance on Long Island.Enjoy the Spider-verse: The new movie, set in Brooklyn, is inspiring, but not perfect.Bangladeshi eats: Korai Kitchen in Jersey City, run by a mother and daughter, offers an experience more akin to visiting a Bangladeshi home, our reviewer writes.A fatal odor? The sudden death of an 11-year-old boy in Canarsie may have been an allergic reaction to the smell of cooking fish. [Daily News]Another M.T.A. bus stolen: It was taken on a four-hour joy ride and returned undamaged by teens who have not been caught. [Daily News]Cows good fortune multiplies: The cow who jumped from a slaughterhouse-bound truck on a New Jersey highway gave birth to a healthy calf at a sanctuary. [NJ Herald]Hit the road, gov: There are three counties Governor Cuomo has not visited since taking office in 2011: Chenango, Fulton and Livingston. [Politico NY]Write down your hopes (or anxieties) for 2019 at a Himalayan prayer flag ceremony at the Rubin Museum. 6:30 p.m. [Free, RSVP]The MIT roboticist Julie Shah talks about how robots can work more collaboratively with their human teammates at the American Museum of Natural History. 7 p.m. [Free]Learn to make soothing shower melts at the Great Kills library on Staten Island. Materials will be provided. 11:30 a.m. [Free] Iman StevensonEvents are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Timess culture pages.Tomorrow a comedy festival called FunnYmmigrants: A Comedy Festival begins, featuring  guess what?  comedians who are immigrants.The festival, at Under St. Marks in the East Village, is organized by Lucie Pohl, a comedian with a funny Twitter feed, and Tess Henry, the general manager of Frigid New York, which promotes new artists and diversity in entertainment.The festival, featuring comedians from Colombia, India, Lebanon and Norway, among other places, runs until Jan. 13 and, according to the organizers, will be funny, timely and know no bounds. I think that translates to jokes about President Trump, and the wall.Dear Diary:There is a lonely ginkgo tree on Fifth Avenue between 38th and 39th Streets. Its branches catch the sun on the east side of the street facing Lord & Taylors well-worn facade.Set at the edge of the hard-packed soil at the base of the tree is a golden plaque honoring Dorothy Shaver, the first female president of a major American department store. As a native New Yorker, I have a strong sentimental attachment to that store, and to that plaque.Lord & Taylor was the eastern anchor of what was once a thriving garment center. The blossoming of its gracious windows every Wednesday was treated like a Broadway opening.It was also the first store to pluck American designers from obscurity. I know this because I was one of those designers.Over the years Lord & Taylor has lost much of its well-earned luster. But for me, it has remained a comforting friend. I walk past it every day on my way to my office, watching as it slips slowly into obscurity.Now, that great institution is closing its doors. Those glorious windows will be shuttered and that lonely ginkgo tree will face the challenge of a new era.Most of all, the shiny plaque honoring that forgotten woman will be on its own. Not totally though. As long as I am around, it will be pampered and polished. Stan HermanNew York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m. Sign up here to get it by email. You can also find it at nytoday.com.Were experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us: nytoday@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byOnly Washington and Beijing, working together, can slow climate change and the spread of nuclear weapons.By Robert E. RubinMr. Rubin was secretary of the Treasury from 1995 to 1999 and is co-chairman emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations.In the United States, support for a cooperative relationship with China is evaporating fast. I increasingly hear frustration from business leaders about structural trade issues. The military is concerned about aggressive geopolitical moves by Beijing. And prominent voices in both political parties are striking an increasingly confrontational tone. Legitimate concerns have led to a vicious cycle, with each negative development further poisoning an already shallow well of good will. The cycle has to be reversed. In the United States, the business community, policy analysts and the media should create a climate that encourages elected officials to pursue a constructive relationship. The same is true in China, albeit in a different political system. Leaders in both countries should recognize our imperative self-interest in working together on hugely consequential transnational issues, especially two threats to life on earth as we know it: nuclear weapons and climate change.No single country can tackle these threats alone, and existing international institutions have proved inadequate. The best chance for successfully dealing with these overarching issues  as well as other transnational issues like pandemics, terrorism and cybersecurity  is for the worlds two largest national economies to catalyze global action. In a conversation I recently led at the Council on Foreign Relations, the Chinese foreign minister, Wang Yi, alluded to this, remarking that history will remember those who took the lead in the mist. The surest way for that to happen is to forge a constructive relationship between our two countries. Absent that, it is imperative that we put our differences aside to tackle these two existential challenges.As the two largest economies, the United States and China can set the tone for a global effort against climate change by investing in clean-energy technology, adopting strict environmental rules and encouraging their trading partners to do the same. (Of course, the current administration does not accept the reality of climate change, but future administrations will hopefully recognize the urgency of action.)Cooperation is also needed to address the spread or possible use of nuclear weapons. North Koreas continued development of fissile materials and missiles is an apparent contravention of its recent agreement with the United States. And North Korea isnt the only concern. Pakistan, for example, has a weak government and uncertain controls over its nuclear arsenal.The arc of human history is one of frequent conflict. Unless you believe human nature is likely to change, that suggests a serious risk that nuclear arms will be used at some point by state or nonstate actors. United States-China cooperation to limit nuclear proliferation among states, the diversion of nuclear material to terrorists and other risks would make us all safer.The most promising prospect for tackling these challenges is to put our countries economic relationship back on steady footing. The tenor of the relationship gets set at the top, so its time for Presidents Trump and Xi Jinping to work out their current trade disputes within a framework that prioritizes cooperation. The administrations antipathy toward China sometimes seems driven by an irrational anger over trade deficits. Virtually all mainstream economists see the presidents theory that our trade relationship should be evaluated by the bilateral trade deficit as analytically wrong.On the other hand, China has contravened some widely accepted trade and investment norms by, for example, subsidizing exports, restricting imports, protecting national champions, imposing buy-China mandates and, at times, requiring foreign companies to share their intellectual property with Chinese partners.These structural policies present a complex problem. Theyre embedded in Chinas economic model, and the United States needs to recognize that it cant simply demand that China change that model. And China needs to recognize that its system creates some unacceptable consequences in the trade arena. From there, the two countries should be able to identify reasonable solutions. Washingtons approach should have been multilateral and quiet, joining with other countries, including our European allies, Brazil, Mexico and Japan to approach Beijing as a united bloc; hopefully its not too late to walk this path.Weve bridged our economic and political differences before. When I served as Treasury secretary in the 1990s, the United States and China worked together to stem the Asian financial crisis. And though the current administration has withdrawn from the Paris climate agreement, bilateral cooperation was integral to its creation in 2015.We must look beyond the daily headlines about trade to the more consequential problem of ever-greater friction between the United States and China. For the future of humanity, not to mention our immediate economic interests, our two countries must recognize our mutual self-interest in a constructive relationship and act accordingly.Robert E. Rubin, secretary of the Treasury from 1995 to 1999, is co-chairman emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"

"AdvertisementSupported byBy Thomas KaplanWASHINGTON  The federal courts are running out of money as the partial government shutdown continues with no end in sight, raising concerns that the legal system will be significantly hobbled if the standoff is not resolved soon.Judges and court officials around the country are bracing for the likelihood that the federal judiciary will be unable to maintain its current operations within the next two weeks, once it exhausts the money it has been relying on since the shutdown began last month.Already, courts have been cutting down on expenses like travel and new hiring. Court-appointed private lawyers who represent indigent defendants have been working without pay since late December, according to the Administrative Office of the United States Courts, which provides support for the court system.There have been other disruptions. The Justice Department is among the executive branch agencies whose funding has lapsed, and at the departments request, some federal courts have issued orders postponing civil cases in which the Justice Department is a party while the shutdown continues, according to the administrative office.If the judiciary runs out of money, courts around the country will pare down their work to mission critical operations, officials said. Thousands of court employees will stop receiving paychecks, some workers are expected to be furloughed and more civil cases could grind to a halt. Jurors may have to wait to be paid until the shutdown is over.Were already having to make what I call triage decisions as to what we can do versus what we cannot do, said Chief Judge Rubn Castillo of Federal District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, which includes Chicago.The Trump administration has tried to blunt the effects of the shutdown on important government services by drawing up plans to recall thousands of employees in executive branch agencies like the Internal Revenue Service and the Agriculture Department.But the courts present an area in which the damage from the shutdown is expected to worsen considerably. A crippled judiciary, with all the consequences that would entail for businesses and citizens alike who come before its courts, would only add to the pressure on President Trump and lawmakers to find a way to reopen the government.With roughly 33,000 employees nationwide and annual federal funding of under $8 billion, the judiciary makes up a tiny part of the federal budget. In recent years, it has accounted for only about two-tenths of 1 percent of annual federal spending.But like other parts of the government, it relies on Congress to provide funding as part of the annual appropriations process, and it now stands as one of the many parts of the government whose funding lapsed in December after Mr. Trump demanded money for a border wall and congressional Democrats refused to go along.Unlike other parts of the government, the courts have been able to keep afloat over the past few weeks by relying on court fees as well as other funds that were available. The courts are now expected to be able to continue funded operations through at least Jan. 25, and possibly until Feb. 1, the administrative office said.When the courts run out of money, they will essentially have to react much the way that executive branch agencies did in December, limiting work to certain essential activities.For the courts, that includes activities to support the exercise of the courts constitutional powers under Article III, specifically the resolution of cases and related services, the administrative office said.The Supreme Court, federal appeals courts, district courts and bankruptcy courts around the country will have to decide on a court-by-court basis how they will change their operations and what staff will be needed to continue that work. Court employees, like executive branch employees affected by the shutdown, would work without pay or be furloughed.Under the Constitution, Supreme Court justices, appeals court judges and district judges would continue to be paid, according to the Congressional Research Service.Court officials are grappling with all sorts of complications that could arise, including the possible effects on court reporters and court interpreters, as well as on jurors who are supposed to be paid for their service and reimbursed for transportation expenses.In Brooklyn, the Federal District Court for the Eastern District of New York is planning to furlough some court employees, and groups that use courthouse facilities for occasions like bar association meetings or continuing legal education are being told to make other plans.Theres a lot of angst, I can tell you that, Eugene J. Corcoran, the district executive for the Eastern District, said of the sentiment among workers.In the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, which covers much of the West, one idea being considered is to close the appellate courthouses to the public for one weekday per week and furlough employees that day.My chief judge has no intention of canceling court, said Molly Dwyer, the clerk of court for the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, noting that oral arguments had been scheduled for weeks to come.In Manhattan, the Federal District Court for the Southern District of New York has already restricted the hours when initial appearances for criminal defendants can take place, because of staffing constraints with the United States Marshals Service.There are little things that cost money but might not normally get much thought, like providing lunch for jurors when they are deliberating. I got to find a deli in town thats going to continue to let us owe them thousands of dollars, said Edward Friedland, the district executive for the Southern District.Then there is the issue of keeping the courthouse doors open.Mr. Friedland said it was unclear if contracted building workers who handle areas like fire safety as well as heating, ventilation and air conditioning would be paid beyond February, raising the possibility that the Southern Districts courthouses might not be able to stay open.That uncertainty has prompted the court to turn to its pandemic plan  which was prepared for a situation in which judges and other court personnel would not be able to leave their homes because of a disease outbreak, but essential work like determining bail for defendants still needed to take place.Thats something we never thought wed be testing for this purpose, Mr. Friedland said.In Chicago, Judge Castillo worried that there would be longer-term ramifications, such as veteran employees deciding to call it quits, and young people being turned off from pursuing federal jobs.Its very self-defeating, he said, adding: Its like youre on the front lines and youre being shot in the back by your own forces. Thats how it feels.Given that his court is already understaffed, he said he was not planning furloughs. But he said that civil trials would be shut down, and his court would give priority to criminal cases in which defendants are detained awaiting trial and have the presumption of innocence.Still, for defendants who are not detained, he predicted that defense lawyers would not want to go to trial because of another complication: There would not be any money to pay jurors until after the shutdown.The dilemma that creates is then you have jurors who are making big decisions and may be unhappy about the circumstances of their jury service, Judge Castillo said. I was a defense attorney. I would not want to proceed to trial under those circumstances because those circumstances can lead to rushed judgments on the part of jurors that just want to get this done and over with. Thats not fair.Follow Thomas Kaplan on Twitter: @thomaskaplan.Adam Liptak contributed reporting.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today._____________________ A re-examination of President Trumps actions by The Times revealed the extent of his assault on federal law enforcement. It also found that Mr. Trumps efforts to attack the Russia investigation have exposed the president to accusations of obstruction of justice. Read the investigation here. And here are a few takeaways. A day after California filed a lawsuit challenging Mr. Trumps emergency declaration on the border, the Transportation Department said it was exploring legal options to claw back $2.5 billion in federal funds it has already spent on the states high-speed rail network. The Trump administration also said it was terminating a $929 million federal grant for the program. House Democrats opened an inquiry into a proposed nuclear power venture in Saudi Arabia that could expose conflicts of interests in the Trump administration and possible violations of law. Mr. Trumps plan to spend billions of dollars to build his border wall involves more than his invocation of emergency powers to redirect military construction funds. Heres how he plans to tap into $2.5 billion in other Pentagon funds, too. Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts introduced a universal child care proposal that would create a network of government-funded child care centers, which would be free for low-income families and partly subsidized for others. In 2016, Senator Bernie Sanders framed his presidential platform as a transformation of the Democratic Party. But as he enters the 2020 presidential race, his progressive ideas have increasingly become part of the Democratic mainstream. Justice Clarence Thomas called for the Supreme Court to reconsider New York Times v. Sullivan, the landmark 1964 ruling interpreting the First Amendment to make it hard for public officials to prevail in libel suits. After two years of aggressively overhauling education policy, Education Secretary Betsy DeVos must now answer to the Democratic lawmakers she has clashed with. The chief strategist for the Republican campaign in North Carolinas Ninth Congressional District said he had no knowledge of the alleged voter-turnout operation that is now under investigation. Mr. Trump moved forward with his planned United States Space Force. He signed an order to begin the process for establishing a new branch of the military that would dedicate itself to handling threats in space._____________________Todays On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grulln Paz in New York.Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Is there anything you think were missing? Anything you want to see more of? Wed love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael CooperHow do you get from Carnegie Hall? You get an offer to run one of the most vibrant performing arts organizations on the West Coast.Jeremy Geffen, who has been an important tastemaker in New York during his dozen years on the artistic planning team at Carnegie Hall, is leaving to become the executive and artistic director of Cal Performances, the arts producer and presenter at the University of California, Berkeley.What appeals to me about Cal Performances is that its the intersection of many strands of music, dance and drama, with the intellectual curiosity of one of the worlds top university environments, Mr. Geffen, 44, said in a telephone interview about his new post, which was announced on Tuesday afternoon. He will start in Berkeley on April 1.The West Coast is increasingly the center of American musical experimentation, with the Los Angeles Philharmonic the most adventurous symphonic ensemble in the country and the San Francisco Symphony having recently named the composer and conductor Esa-Pekka Salonen its next music director.Cal Performances has long been an important music presenter; this seasons lineup includes the cellist Yo-Yo Ma; Daniel Barenboim conducting the West-Eastern Divan Orchestra; and the mezzo-soprano Joyce DiDonato. But it also features dance companies, including the Mark Morris Dance Group and Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater; theater troupes from around the world; and the creation of new work.One of its most ambitious offerings this season will be Dreamers, an oratorio it commissioned about the lives of young, undocumented immigrants by the composer Jimmy Lpez and the playwright Nilo Cruz. Mr. Salonen will conduct the Philharmonia Orchestra and the soprano Ana Mara Martnez in the premiere on March 17.[Read about how the election of Donald Trump changed the tone of the piece.]Mr. Geffen has taken a leading role in Carnegies artistic planning, including its annual citywide festivals in recent years, and its fostering of new work, including its 125 Commissions Project in celebration of the halls 125th anniversary. He said that he looked forward to collaborations at Cal Performances that would tap the expertise and energy of the Berkeley campus.If there is any type of experience that has been meaningful to me, its identifying either uncelebrated or unknown talents  whether thats compositional or performing  and giving them a platform, he said. Because almost every time, they have knocked the ball out of the park.Clive Gillinson, Carnegie Halls executive and artistic director, said Mr. Geffen would be missed for his deep knowledge and prodigious memory. There comes a time in everybodys life when they want more responsibilities, broader responsibilities, and to run an institution themselves, he said in a telephone interview.In Berkeley, Mr. Geffen succeeds Matas Tarnopolsky, who left last summer to lead the Philadelphia Orchestra. It will be a return to the West Coast for Mr. Geffen, who was born in South Africa and raised in Orange County, Calif., where he first developed his interest in music.I would not have been in music at all had not been for being in the public school system, and we had an instrumental music program at my junior high school and high school and thats where I got my training, he said, adding, I want to share those experiences, I want to share those opportunities.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Thomas Gibbons-NeffWASHINGTON  President Trump threatened Turkey on Sunday with harsh economic sanctions if it attacks Kurdish forces in Syria after American troops withdraw from the country in the coming months.Will devastate Turkey economically if they hit Kurds, Mr. Trump said on Twitter, suggesting that there would be a 20-mile safe zone around the group after American forces leave. He added, Likewise, do not want the Kurds to provoke Turkey.Mr. Trumps tweets marked the first public threat toward Turkey, a NATO ally, over the Kurds and seemed to offer a blanket of protection for the group, a band of American-backed militias that the Turkish government sees as terrorists.Mr. Trumps announced pullout from Syria without guaranteeing safety for the Kurds, who have helped American forces fight the Islamic State, had received sharp criticism from lawmakers. But his tweets Sunday threatened to upend Secretary of State Mike Pompeos attempt to reach a deal with Turkey to protect them, something Mr. Pompeo had been optimistic about when talking to reporters in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, earlier Sunday.After speaking with his Turkish counterpart, Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu, Mr. Pompeo had said he was optimistic that we can achieve a good outcome, though details were being worked out.Ibrahim Kalin, a spokesman for President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey, reiterated in a response to Mr. Trumps tweets that Turkey considered the Kurdish fighters terrorists. Turkey expects the US to honor our strategic partnership and doesnt want it to be shadowed by terrorist propaganda, he wrote.Turkey, which has said it is planning an assault on Islamic State and Kurdish forces in northeastern Syria, contends that the Kurdish fighters in Syria are part of a front for the outlawed Kurdistan Workers Party, or P.K.K., a Kurdish insurgency in Turkey.In his tweets Sunday, Mr. Trump also mentioned striking the Islamic State from an existing nearby base if the group reappears after the American withdrawal, something analysts have feared if American forces hastily leave the country.The Pentagon has suggested positioning Special Operations troops in nearby Iraq, where they could attack in Syria if needed. There is heavy fighting in Syria around the town of Hajin, where Islamic State militants still hold some territory. The areas they control have been reduced to a few villages, after the group once held a swath of land roughly the size of Britain.Mr. Trumps tweets are just one more wrinkle in a process racked with conflicting statements and uncertain timelines after the president announced a pullout of Syria within 30 days late last month.His decision prompted the resignation of two top administration officials, Defense Secretary Jim Mattis and Brett McGurk, the special presidential envoy to the coalition fighting the Islamic State.Mr. Trump later agreed to give the military about four months to withdraw. And a week ago, the national security adviser, John R. Bolton, said the withdrawal was conditional, insinuating that American troops could potentially be on the ground even longer.On Friday, a vaguely worded statement from the American military headquarters in Baghdad, which oversees the fight against the Islamic State, said the withdrawal of the roughly 2,000 American troops in Syria had already begun. Military officials later clarified that only equipment had left the country and not troops.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Jeff Ernst and Kirk SempleSANTA ROSA DE COPAN, Honduras  Hundreds of Hondurans traveling in vehicles and on foot converged on the Guatemalan border on Tuesday, part of a new migrant caravan bound for the United States which President Trump has already used as fresh ammunition in his fight for border wall funding.The caravan began departing from the northern Honduran city of San Pedro Sula on Monday night. Others set off throughout the day on Tuesday. Honduran authorities estimated that between 800 and 1,000 people were in the caravan, while officials from Honduras National Human Rights Commission put the range between 1,500 and 2,000.Mr. Trump, whose dispute with Congress over his demand for $5.7 billion for a border wall between Mexico and the United States has led to a partial shutdown of the federal government since Dec. 22, warned on Twitter on Tuesday about the new mass migration.A big new Caravan is heading up to our Southern Border from Honduras, he wrote. Only a Wall, or Steel Barrier, will keep our Country safe! Stop playing political games and end the Shutdown!The new caravan is following in the footsteps of several other large migrant groups that left Central America last fall and crossed Guatemala and Mexico, with thousands of participants ending up in or near the city of Tijuana in northern Mexico.The Trump administration has excoriated Central American and Mexican governments for failing to stop the caravans, which met little resistance at the various international borders they crossed on the way north.In a show of muscle on Tuesday, however, the Honduran government vowed vigilance at its border with Guatemala and said it had detained 60 minors without proper travel documents to leave Honduras.The border and the illegal crossings are reinforced, Julin Pacheco, the Honduran security minister, told reporters on Tuesday. If people are going to leave, they have to leave through legal, authorized points.The Mexican government has also vowed to harden its southern border to block the passage of any undocumented migrants in the latest caravan. Olga Snchez, the countrys interior minister, said that officials had identified about 370 illegal points of entry along its border with Guatemala and planned to monitor them to prevent illegal crossings.Tens of thousands of Hondurans and other Central Americans have migrated north in recent years, fleeing rampant violence and poverty. Some have chosen to move in large, semi-coordinated groups or caravans, offering participants a degree of security against the many perils that lurk on the migrant trail, including muggings, extortion and rape.Until last year, most caravans went largely unnoticed. But a migration that began in southern Mexico last spring drew the attention of Mr. Trump, who warned that the group posed a threat to the United States sovereignty.An even larger group set off from Honduras in October, drawing the ire of Mr. Trump as well as international media attention. It was followed by other groups and by mid-November, more than 6,000 migrants, nearly all from Central America, had made it as far as Tijuana.Hundreds of them have applied for asylum in the United States while others have tried to cross the border illegally. Still others have decided to remain in Mexico, availing themselves of the Mexican governments offer of humanitarian visas and work permits. Hundreds more, frustrated with their inability to cross legally into the United States, have been voluntarily repatriated to their homes in Central America.But neither the dashed hopes of so many from last years caravans nor Mr. Trumps threats seemed to discourage many of the participants in the latest caravan.Even though a wall is being built, thats not going to stop us, said Junior Aleman, 17, who was walking with a group of about a dozen migrants through the mountains of western Honduras on Tuesday. The group had left San Pedro Sula on Monday night and, through a combination of walking and hitching rides, were making their way toward the Honduras-Guatemala border crossing at Agua Caliente.He intended to try to cross illegally into the United States and head for Virginia, where two of his aunts lived. There, he said, he planned to find a job  something that had been hard to come by in Honduras.Theres no work and I want to help my family, he said.Jeff Ernst reported from Santa Rosa de Copan, Honduras, and Kirk Semple reported from Mexico City.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byMilitary analysts are increasingly concerned about the nations advanced, underestimated and highly lethal bioweapons program.By Emily Baumgaertner and William J. BroadWASHINGTON  Pound for pound, the deadliest arms of all time are not nuclear but biological. A single gallon of anthrax, if suitably distributed, could end human life on Earth.Even so, the Trump administration has given scant attention to North Koreas pursuit of living weapons  a threat that analysts describe as more immediate than its nuclear arms, which Pyongyang and Washington have been discussing for more than six months.According to an analysis issued by the Middlebury Institute of International Studies at Monterey last month, North Korea is collaborating with foreign researchers to learn biotechnology skills and build machinery. As a result, the countrys capabilities are increasing rapidly.North Korea is far more likely to use biological weapons than nuclear ones, said Andrew C. Weber, a Pentagon official in charge of nuclear, chemical and biological defense programs under President Obama. The program is advanced, underestimated and highly lethal.The North may want to threaten a devastating germ counterattack as a way of warding off aggressors. If so, its bioweapons would act as a potent deterrent. But experts also worry about offensive strikes and agents of unusual lethality, especially the smallpox virus, which spreads person-to-person and kills a third of its victims. Experts have long suspected that the North harbors the germ, which in 1980 was declared eradicated from human populations.Worse, analysts say, satellite images and internet scrutiny of the North suggest that Pyongyang is newly interested in biotechnology and germ advances. In 2015, state media showed Kim Jong-un, the nations leader, touring a biological plant, echoing his nuclear propaganda.But compared to traditional weapons, biological threats have a host of unsettling distinctions: Germ production is small-scale and far less expensive than creating nuclear arms. Deadly microbes can look like harmless components of vaccine and agricultural work. And living weapons are hard to detect, trace and contain.The Norths great secrecy makes it hard to assess the threat and the countrys degree of sophistication. Today, the North might well have no bioweapons at all  just research, prototypes, human testing, and the ability to rush into industrial production.Still, Anthony H. Cordesman, a former Pentagon intelligence official now at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, said the North has made major strides in all technical areas needed for the production of a major germ arsenal.In unclassified reports, the Trump administration has alluded to the Norths bioweapons program in vague terms. President Trump did not broach the subject of biological weapons during his meeting with Mr. Kim in Singapore, according to American officials.The lack of detail and urgency is all the more surprising given that John R. Bolton, Mr. Trumps national security adviser, has long described it as a regional and even a global threat.In 2002, as under secretary of state for arms control and international security in the George W. Bush administration, Mr. Bolton declared that North Korea has one of the most robust offensive bioweapons programs on Earth.Last century, most nations that made biological arms gave them up as impractical. Capricious winds could carry deadly agents back on users, infecting troops and citizens. The United States renounced its arsenal in 1969.But today, analysts say, the gene revolution could be making germ weapons more attractive. They see the possibility of designer pathogens that spread faster, infect more people, resist treatment, and offer better targeting and containment. If so, North Korea may be in the forefront.South Korean military white papers have identified at least ten facilities in the North that could be involved in the research and production of more than a dozen biological agents, including those that cause the plague and hemorrhagic fevers.United States intelligence officials have not publicly endorsed those findings. But many experts say the technological hurdles to such advances have collapsed. The North, for instance, has received advanced microbiology training from institutions in Asia and Europe.Bruce Bennett, a defense researcher at the RAND Corporation, said defectors from the North have described witnessing the testing of biological agents on political prisoners.Several North Korean military defectors have tested positive for smallpox antibodies, suggesting they were either exposed to the deadly virus or vaccinated against it, according to a report by Harvard Kennedy Schools Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs.Smallpox claimed up to a half billion lives before it was declared eradicated. Today, few populations are vaccinated against the defunct virus.Starting three years ago, Amplyfi, a strategic intelligence firm, detected a dramatic increase in North Korean web searches for antibiotic resistance, microbial dark matter, cas protein and similar esoteric terms, hinting at a growing interest in advanced gene and germ research.According to the Middlebury Institute analysis, at least 100 research publications that were jointly written by North Korean and foreign scientists have implications for military purposes, such as developing weapons of mass destruction. The collaborations may violate international sanctions. Joseph S. Bermudez, Jr., a North Korean military analyst, said it is entirely likely that the North has already experimented with gene editing that could enhance bacteria and viruses. These are scientists, and scientists love to tinker, he said.Western concerns about the Norths program jumped in June 2015, after Mr. Kim posed in a white lab coat alongside military officers and scientists in a modern-looking pesticide facility called the Bio-Technical Institute, his arms outspread toward shiny lab equipment.The plant allegedly produced pesticides. The photos showed enormous fermenters for growing microbes, as well as spray dryers that can turn bacterial spores into a powder fine enough to be inhaled. Mr. Kim was beaming.Melissa Hanham, a scholar who first identified the sites threatening potential, said equipment model numbers showed that the North had obtained the machinery by evading sanctions  laundering money, creating front companies or bribing people to buy it on the black market.She said the evidence suggests the North succeeded in building a seemingly harmless agricultural plant that could be repurposed within weeks to produce dried anthrax spores.Arms-control analysts say intrusive inspections are needed to see whether a facility is intended for peaceful aims or something else.A nuclear weapons facility has very visible signals to the outside world, Mr. Bermudez said. We can look at it and immediately say, Ugh, thats a nuclear reactor. But the technology for conducting biological weapons research is essentially the same as what keeps a population healthy.Americans felt the sting of bioweapons in 2001 when a teaspoon of anthrax powder, dispatched in a handful of envelopes, killed five people, sickened 17 more and set off a nationwide panic. The spores shut down Congressional offices, the Supreme Court and much of the postal system, and cost about $320 million to clean up.Federal budgets for biodefense soared after the attacks but have declined in recent years.The level of resources going against this is pitiful, said Mr. Weber, the former Pentagon official. We are back into complacency.Dr. Robert Kadlec, the assistant secretary for preparedness and response at the Department of Health and Human Services, said, We dont spend half of an aircraft carrier on our preparedness for deliberate or natural events.The National Security Councils top health security position was eliminated last year, so biological threats now come under the more general heading of weapons of mass destruction.Still, on the Korean Peninsula, troops gird for a North Korean attack. According to the Belfer report, American forces in Korea since 2004 have been vaccinated against smallpox and anthrax.Recently, Army engineers sped up the detection of biological agents from days to hours through Project Jupitr, or the Joint United States Forces Korea Portal and Integrated Threat Recognition, a Department of Defense spokeswoman said.The comptroller general of the United States, after a request from the House Armed Services Committee, is currently conducting an evaluation of military preparedness for germ attacks.If youre a country that feels generally outclassed in conventional weapons, Ms. Hanham said, a lethal microbe such as anthrax might seem like a good way to create an outsized amount of damage.Such an attack would maximize casualties, she said, while terrorizing the uninfected population. For North Korea, Ms. Hanham added, That would be the twofold goal.Follow Emily Baumgaertner on Twitter: @Emily_BaumWilliam J. Broad is a science journalist and senior writer. He joined The Times in 1983, and has shared two Pulitzer Prizes with his colleagues, as well as an Emmy Award and a DuPont Award.  @WilliamJBroad Advertisement"
Paul Manaforts Trail of ScandalsMy Dead Dads Porno TapesTen Meter TowerBetween Sound and SilenceCoal Miner to Trump: Coal Mining Isnt Coming BackHouse Tour | Cary LeibowitzSanctuary City Hotline2011: Arab SpringCan The President Be Impeached? We Answer Your QuestionsCalving Season
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael D. Shear and Adam GoldmanWASHINGTON  An American citizen who was abducted nearly 18 months ago in the Yemeni city of Sana was freed last week and has been reunited with his family, President Trump announced on Monday.Danny Lavone Burch, an engineer at a Yemeni oil company, has been recovered and reunited with his wife and children, Mr. Trump tweeted aboard Air Force One as he flew toward Vietnam, where he is to meet this week with Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader.I appreciate the support of the United Arab Emirates in bringing Danny home, the president wrote. Dannys recovery reflects the best of what the United States & its partners can accomplish.Mr. Trump did not specify how Mr. Burch, who is married to a Yemeni woman, was freed. It also was not clear who had abducted Mr. Burch, although former American officials said he was not being held by Al Qaeda.Working closely with American forces, the United Arab Emirates has stationed ground troops in Yemen to fight Houthi rebels in the countrys ongoing civil war. American officials have previously told The New York Times that freeing Mr. Burch likely would have required a raid; a State Department spokesman on Monday said the United Arab Emirates was crucial to securing his release.Two American officials discussed the details of the case on Monday on condition of anonymity.Mr. Burch, who had been working for oil companies in Yemen for years, was 63 when he was forced from his car by unidentified gunmen in September 2017. At the time, Nadia Forsa, Mr. Burchs wife, said in a phone interview that they did it in broad daylight in front of everyone.Kidnappings of Americans and other Westerners are common in Yemen, a poor country that has been devastated by years of civil unrest. Houthi rebels and affiliates of Al Qaeda often attempt to ransom hostages for money or accuse them of being spies.At the time of Mr. Burchs abduction, no group claimed responsibility.Mr. Burch began working on oil rigs in Yemen in the mid-1990s. He traveled between the United States and Yemen before moving there permanently, according to Stephen Burch, his son from his first marriage, in an interview shortly after he was taken in 2017.Stephen Burch said then that his father had divorced his first wife and had virtually no contact with him or his other children from the first marriage.In his tweets on Monday, Mr. Trump said recovering American hostages is a priority of my Admin, and with Dannys release, we have now secured freedom for 20 American captives since my election victory.Julian E. Barnes contributed reporting.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byCrossing the Border newsletterBy The New York TimesWelcome to Crossing the Border, a limited-run weekly newsletter from The New York Times. Like what you see? Send this to a friend. If someone forwarded it to you, sign up here to have the next issue delivered to your inbox.By Kirk Semple in Ciudad Jurez, MexicoIn 1994, Franklin Pupos father fled Cuba by way of Central America and Mexico, before settling in Las Vegas.Now, 25 years later, Mr. Pupo is following roughly the same path.Incredible, said Mr. Pupo, 40, marveling at how his familys history was repeating itself.I spoke with Mr. Pupo and his wife, Yaima Garca, 37, this week in an evangelical church that had been converted into a temporary migrant shelter. The building, a cinder block warehouse that previously served as a hardware store, was tucked in a scrappy, semi-industrial neighborhood of this border city in northern Mexico.The couples journey had come to an abrupt halt here a month ago when their quest for sanctuary in the United States ran up against the cold realities of the border. They are now among many thousands who are waiting in Ciudad Jurez and other border cities for their chance to apply for asylum in the United States.Its a quirk of current migratory patterns that Mr. Pupo and Ms. Garca also find themselves among many other Cuban asylum-seekers in Ciudad Jurez. By the estimates of government officials, as many as 70 percent of the more than 3,000 migrants waiting here to apply for asylum across the border in El Paso, are Cuban.In other border cities, those waiting to cross are mostly Central Americans.The Cuban always tries to be in a group, Ms. Garca explained. I see it as a form of protectionHow Ciudad Jurez came to be the preferred crossing point for Cubans remains a mystery. But migrants say that it has the reputation for being safer for migrants and less crowded with asylum-seekers than other popular crossing points. Word traveled through the Cuban migrant grapevine  in WhatsApp messaging groups, by phone and on social media.While Cubans have been a common sight for years on the migrant trail through Mexico, their numbers rising and falling in response to events back home and shifts in American policy, the flow appeared to pick up in recent months.Officials here in Ciudad Jurez said they began registering a sharp increase in the number of Cuban asylum-seekers in late fall.The Cubans, by and large, say they are fleeing political repression in the Caribbean nation. Cubans seeking sanctuary used to get special treatment in the United States: Under a policy known as wet foot, dry foot, Cubans who made it to American soil were allowed to stay and eventually apply for permanent residency. But the Obama administration halted those privileges in January 2017, and since then Cuban asylum-seekers have been like everyone else.In Ciudad Jurez, they have run up against a Trump administration system that limits the daily number of asylum seekers allowed to present their cases at ports of entry. This practice has given rise to informal waiting lists in border towns.So, the Cubans and others are biding their time  in migrant shelters, in budget hotels and in cheap, rented rooms  and suppressing the impulse to hire a smuggler and cross illegally.Mr. Pupo and Ms. Garca left Cuba on Feb. 6, flew to Panama and traveled overland to Mexico, arriving in Ciudad Jurez on March 1 and finding their way to Solus Christus Church.The shelter is overseen by Lilia and Rodolfo Barraza, who opened its doors to migrants on Feb. 26 after local officials appealed for help in absorbing the flow of asylum-seekers into the city.Mr. Barraza, 65, a pastor, said that initially he had been inclined to say no, but he remembered a biblical passage that described the moral obligation to do good.And when I thought of that biblical verse, I said, Bring them, Mr. Barraza recalled. And the next day they were here.The couple has hosted as many as 74 migrants at one time, jammed into a space suitable for far less; there are currently 38, all but one of them Cubans. (The exception is a Venezuelan woman.)Ms. Barraza, 61, said that before they had opened their doors, she had never met a Cuban. But now I think theyre beautiful, she said. We love them. They are our brothers and sisters.The symbolic focus of the space is a white board on which is written the waiting-list number of the last migrant allowed to cross the border and present themselves to the American authorities. A migrants number in line has become almost as important as any other piece of data in their life.When a migrants number is called and they successfully cross, its a bittersweet moment for those who remain behind: They lose a traveling partner but move one step closer to their own appointment.It could be a week, two weeks, a month, Ms. Garca mused on a recent afternoon at the shelter.The number on the board was 6995. Her number is 7533. Mr. Pupos is 7534.For now, Mr. Pupo added, this is our refuge.Kirk is one of a team of New York Times journalists currently reporting from the border. Each week theyll be sharing a slice of their reporting about the border and the people who spend time on both sides of it.Read more about Kirks time in Ciudad Jurez here. Do you have questions about life on the border? Or feedback about this newsletter? Email us at: crossingtheborder@nytimes.com.MCALLEN, Tex.  The Border Patrols largest detention center has swelled in recent weeks amid an influx of migrant families from Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador. The processing center in the border city of McAllen has frequently exceeded its capacity, leading to mass releases of migrants that have overwhelmed nonprofit shelters.The building, known informally as Ursula because of its Ursula Avenue address, has been criticized by immigrant advocates for holding migrants in large pens made of chain-link fencing.  Manny Fernandez, the New York Times Houston bureau chief, spoke to Senator Jon Tester, a Montana Democrat who spent more than an hour touring the Ursula facility last week.The following is an edited and condensed version of the conversation.Q: What was it like?A: I was there on Sunday (March 24). Im not going to talk to you like most Democrats will talk to you. Im going to tell you that, when I walked in there, it ripped your guts out. It made you cry. It did all those things that people say it did to you, because you had children and you had mothers. I looked at them as kids the same age as my grandkids. On the other side of the equation, there were a lot of people in a fairly small area, and the ventilation had to be pretty darn good because it didnt stink.How many migrants were there at the time?Twenty-two hundred. And their capacity is 1,500.Did it feel overcrowded or just crowded?Gosh, youre asking the wrong guy, because this is the first time Ive been in that processing center. It felt crowded.Can you describe it?Its a metal building thats insulated. Each one of the holding areas had a bathroom and a sink. Theyre held by sex, of course. And then the families were held in different steel cages, basically. Everybody had a blanket that wanted one, Mylar blankets. Most of them were laying down on mats. Some of them were standing up. Some of them were sitting on benches.What were Border Patrol officials saying about all this?They said they were processing them through as quick as they could. They said the manpower they were using here was manpower that theyd rather have on the border, but nonetheless they had to process these folks. Look, I mean, I dont like prisons. I dont like holding people up. But the bottom line is that I dont have any better idea than the way they were doing it, and I asked them if they did and they didnt either, although they were tasked with trying to find a better way to do it. They were providing food and water and baby formula, and were treating these folks as good as they could treat them, in the conditions that were there. Im simply just not critical of Border Protection in this situation because I dont know what the solution is.Some Democrats were calling the mass releases a manufactured attempt to fuel the crisis-at-the-border narrative. Do you agree?I dont think I can agree with it. Look, Im not a conspiracy theorist. I think I have to go with what I saw, and what I saw literally was a bunch of families in this facility and I think it is what it is right now. The direction I would take it is, what are the push factors in these countries that are pushing these families to our southern border?Was Border Patrol cooperative during the tour?They were absolutely cooperative. Ive been on these trips before, and I know for a fact they show you want they want you to see. But they were very cooperative.Were the conditions horrible? Beauty is in the eye of the beholder, I guess. I dont think they were horrible, but by the same token it was gut-wrenching to see mothers and children sitting there in cages.It sounds like it was packed but people still had some room.I dont know how many square feet each person needs to determine whether it was overflowed or packed or beyond the pale. I just know as I looked there, there was some space and people could mill around, although it was very crowded. It would drive me crazy. My nearest neighbor is a mile away. It would drive me nuts.President Trump visited a portion of the border wall in California on Friday, a day after backing off a threat to close the border with Mexico.The president  floated the idea of closing the border last week  defending it repeatedly here and here  even as economic experts warned doing so could damage the economy.(The agricultural and manufacturing industries would have been especially hard-hit by a closing, including a potential avocado shortage.)Instead, on Thursday, Mr. Trump said he would give Mexico a one-year warning before closing the border.If the drugs dont stop or arent largely stopped, were going to put tariffs on Mexico and products, in particular cars  the whole ballgame is cars, he said. And if that doesnt stop the drugs, we close the border.Read earlier installments of Crossing the Border here. Sign up here to have the next issue delivered to your inbox.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Thomas ErdbrinkTEHRAN  All her life Yalda Moayeri, a 37-year-old photojournalist from Iran, has struggled with men. She has dealt with mansplaining colleagues, Iranian censors and the countrys security forces. Some created obstacles, others pressured her. She always fought back.Now shes tangling with President Trump, who used a photograph she shot without permission for his own political purposes.On the 40th anniversary of the Islamic Revolution, celebrated on Monday, Mr. Trump tweeted an iconic image taken by Ms. Moayeri. The image  taken under dangerous circumstances  shows an unidentified protester in Tehran, her left fist raised while surrounded by smoke, during demonstrations in 2017.Mr. Trump took aim at Irans leaders, who he, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and National Security Adviser John R. Bolton all indirectly say must be changed.40 years of corruption. 40 years of repression. 40 years of terror. The regime in Iran has produced only #40YearsofFailure. The long-suffering Iranian people deserve a much brighter future, the president said in the Twitter post. Mr. Trump also posted the message in Persian, using the same image.When Ms. Moayeri saw the post, she said, something snapped.I felt cheated and abused, it causes me great sorrow to see the man who is inflicting so much pain upon me and my compatriots to use my image for his own agenda, she said. I did not take this risk to have someone using it to pressure us Iranians even further.Trump administration officials in Washington did not immediately respond to emailed requests for comment on Ms. Moayeris criticism.The day she went out to photograph the image, Dec. 30, 2017, many places in the country were convulsed by protests over worsening economic conditions. Protesters also shouted slogans against the government and Irans Islamic leaders.When Ms. Moayeri got word of protests at Tehran University, she found students and riot police throwing stones at each other. Despite her fear of arrest, she started snapping photographs.A stone hit her leg and some police officers blasted fire extinguishers, filling the air with billowy white fumes that resembled tear-gas smoke, she recalled, as the protests spilled outside the universitys gates.Suddenly this young woman appeared through the smoke, covering her face with her head scarf and flashing a victory sign, I snapped some images, she said. I never figured out who she was. Only when I came home I saw the picture had power.Thousands were arrested, 25 people died, the authorities tried to control the news and Ms. Moayeri possessed an image that had captured it all. As a freelancer who had worked in Sudan, Somalia, Pakistan, Iraq and elsewhere, she had many places to sell the picture, but also knew that if her name were published she might get into trouble with the authorities.She ended up selling the image to Iran-based photographers for The Associated Press and Agence France-Presse. It quickly spread via social media as the symbol of the protests in Iran. There was no contract, and Ms. Moayeri said she still owned the rights to the image.After six months she decided she had waited long enough to take public credit for the image. Ms. Moayeri sent it to the annual Iranian Photojournalists Association and won  first prize. She did not get in trouble.She provided The New York Times with the sequence and original pictures taken that day.Taking pictures that tell the truth is the job of all photojournalists, she said.When Mr. Pompeo used the image last July ahead of a meeting with Iranians living in the United States who oppose the Islamic republic and its leaders, Ms. Moayeri said she had been upset, but thought, O.K., whatever.But she lost her temper when President Trump posted the image on Monday. His sanctions are devastating our lives. Our money became worthless. People are becoming poor. Because of his travel ban, many Iranians cannot visit their family members in the United States. My father lives there and I cant go either, she said. I just dont want to be any part of his agenda against Iran.She wrote a statement on her Instagram page, distancing herself from the use of the image by Mr. Trump. Its not as if I can sue the president of the United States as an Iranian, so I guess this is all I can do, she said.Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated Ms. Moayeris recollection of the scene when she shot the photograph. Police officers, not students, blasted the fire extinguishers that had filled the air with white fumes, she said.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Jacey FortinWith a midday tweet on Thursday, President Trump voiced his support of Israeli control over the Golan Heights, reversing decades of American policy.The move thrust the Golan Heights  a fertile plateau beside the Sea of Galilee that has been one of Israels quieter frontiers for a half-century  back into international headlines.The area covers under 500 square miles and offers expansive views over Syria and Israel, giving it strategic military importance. It was seized by Israel from Syria during the Six-Day War of 1967, and since then, it has been claimed by both countries.[The Golan Heights was once an Arab rallying cry. Not anymore.]The Six-Day War of June 1967 ended in decisive victories for Israel, which seized the Golan Heights from Syria. Syrian forces began a failed attempt to reclaim the territory in 1973. That war ended with an armistice that left most of the Golan Heights in Israeli hands. In 1981, Israel passed a law that effectively annexed it.40 MilesSYRIALEBANONGOLANHEIGHTSMediterraneanSeaISRAELTel AvivWESTBANKJORDANJerusalemGAZASTRIPBy The New York TimesBut that move was never recognized internationally, and a United Nations Security Council resolution that year said that the Israeli decision to impose its laws, jurisdiction and administration in the occupied Syrian Golan Heights is null and void and without international legal effect.There have been halting negotiations over the Golan Heights, but in 2011 the conflict in Syria introduced new tensions to the area and effectively shut down those efforts.The Golan Heights is not densely populated. According to some estimates, there are around 50,000 people, with Israeli Jewish settlers making up nearly half. The rest are mostly people of Syrian ancestry who are Druze, a religion that has been described as an offshoot of Ismaili Islam.[Sign up for the weekly At War newsletter to receive stories about conflict and consequence.]Druze residents of the Golan Heights have largely resisted obtaining Israeli citizenship and have maintained a strong connection to Syria for decades. Despite the proximity  megaphones and binoculars have connected people in the Golan Heights with friends across the border  that connection has been tested by the devastating conflict in Syria.But over all, life in the Golan Heights has been relatively tranquil compared with other places on Israels frontiers.For decades, the United Nations and the United States refused to recognize Israels seizure of the Golan Heights and the West Bank in 1967, arguing that the contours of Israel must be negotiated diplomatically.But President Trump tweeted on Thursday that it is time for the United States to fully recognize Israels Sovereignty over the Golan Heights, adding that it was of critical importance to Israel and stability in the Middle East.His tweet came after pressure from Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, and it could help shore up support for Mr. Netanyahu in the embattled leaders bid for a fifth term in hotly contested elections scheduled for April 9.But in an interview on Thursday afternoon with Fox Business Network, Mr. Trump said that he had considered recognizing the Golan Heights as part of Israel for a long time and that his decision was not meant to boost Mr. Netanyahus electoral chances.Mr. Trumps tweet was not entirely out of the blue. He has already recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, moved the United States Embassy there from Tel Aviv and cut aid to Palestinian refugees. In November the United States voted for the first time against a symbolic resolution that the United Nations issues annually condemning Israels presence in the Golan Heights.Since 2011, Israeli officials have expressed relief that the Golan Heights has acted as a sort of buffer for the conflict in Syria, whose president, Bashar al-Assad, is supported by Iran.All of you can imagine what would have happened if Israel were not in the Golan, Mr. Netanyahu said on Wednesday during a meeting with Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. We would have Iran on the shores of the Sea of Galilee.Syrias ambassador to the United Nations in Geneva, Hussam Edin Aala, warned on Wednesday against Israels malicious attempts to exploit the situation and the latest developments in Syria and the region to consolidate the occupation of the Golan Heights, the Syrian state news agency, SANA, reported. But critics of Mr. Assad have noted that although he and his government have frequently talked about liberating the Golan Heights, they have taken little action to do so in decades.On its own, Mr. Trumps tweet is not likely to change things in the Golan Heights. There is no negotiation underway on the areas status, nor any expectation that Israel is going to withdraw from it.But the announcement was the latest in a series of steps under the Trump administration that have reshaped the United States role in conflicts between Israel and its Arab neighbors, to the benefit of Israels right-wing government.Ben Hubbard contributed reporting.Advertisement"
"A series of careful financial decisions, and the creation of nonprofits and academic centers staffed by close advisers, would help a campaign-in-waiting.Joseph R. Biden Jr. spoke with the novelist Jodi Picoult at an event last month in Vermont.CreditCreditHilary Swift for The New York TimesSupported byBy Kevin Sack and Alexander BurnsWhen officials at the University of Utah invited Joseph R. Biden Jr. to speak there in December, Mr. Bidens representatives listed a number of requirements for the appearance. His booking firm, Creative Artists Agency, said the school would need to fly Mr. Biden and his aides to Salt Lake City by private plane. It would buy 1,000 copies of his recent memoir from a designated vendor. There would be no insertion of the word former before vice president in social media promotions. And the speaking fee would be $100,000  a reduced rate, it was explained, for colleges and universities.But three days before the event, Mr. Bidens aides learned that the public university would be using state funds to pay his fee. They already had a policy against taking tuition dollars, and decided that accepting taxpayer dollars for such a windfall might appear just as politically distasteful. Mr. Biden made the trip anyway but declined to take a check.That costly last-minute reversal exposes the complicated balance Mr. Biden has attempted since leaving the vice presidency two years ago: between earning substantial wealth for the first time and maintaining viability as a potential 2020 presidential contender.He has done so while building a network of nonprofits and academic centers that are staffed by his closest strategists and advisers, many making six figures while working on the issues most closely identified with him. It has effectively become a campaign-in-waiting, poised to metamorphose if the 76-year-old Mr. Biden announces his third bid for the presidency.[Here are five ways that 2020 hopefuls are campaigning when there is no campaign yet.]Mr. Biden is expected to reveal his plans early this year, after consulting with his family over the holidays. Having skipped the 2016 race after the grueling death of his elder son, Beau, from brain cancer, he would enter the coming Democratic contest as an early front-runner. With his political self-branding as Middle-Class Joe, he is seen by Democratic strategists as well equipped to make inroads into President Trumps base of blue-collar white voters.CURRENTEMPLOYERNAMEFORMER BIDEN POSITIONAmericanPossibilitiesPACGreg SchultzSenior adviser toVice President Biden;longtime BidenstrategistBeau BidenFoundationfor theProtectionof ChildrenJoshua AlcornSenior adviser,Draft BidenBidenCancerInitiativeGregory C. SimonExecutive director,White House CancerMoonshot Task ForceBidenFoundationTed KaufmanFormer U.S. senatorfrom Delawareappointed as Bidenssuccessor; chief ofstaff to SenatorJoseph R. Biden Jr.for 19 yearsLouisa TerrellSpecial assistant toPresident Obama forlegislative affairs;deputy chief of staffto Senator BidenBidenInstituteMichael DonilonSenior adviser toVice President Biden;longtime BidenstrategistSarah BianchiDirector of policy forVice President BidenPenn BidenCenter forDiplomacyand GlobalEngagementSteve RicchettiChief of staff toVice President BidenAntony J. BlinkenFormer deputysecretary of stateand national securityadviser to VicePresident BidenCURRENTEMPLOYERNAMECURRENT POSITIONFORMER BIDEN POSITIONAmericanPossibilities PACGreg SchultzExecutive directorSenior adviser to Vice President Biden;longtime Biden strategistBeau BidenFoundation forthe Protectionof ChildrenJoshua AlcornChief engagementofficerSenior adviser, Draft BidenBiden CancerInitiativeGregory C. SimonPresidentExecutive director, White HouseCancer Moonshot Task ForceBidenFoundationTed KaufmanBoard chairmanFormer U.S. senator from Delawareappointed as Bidens successor; chief ofstaff to Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr.for 19 yearsLouisa TerrellExecutive directorSpecial assistant to President Obamafor legislative affairs; deputy chief of staffto Senator BidenBidenInstituteMichael DonilonManaging directorSenior adviser to Vice President Biden;longtime Biden strategistSarah BianchiSenior adviserDirector of policy for Vice President BidenPenn BidenCenter forDiplomacyand GlobalEngagementSteve RicchettiManaging directorChief of staff to Vice President BidenAntony J. BlinkenManaging directorFormer deputy secretary of state andnational security adviser to Vice PresidentBidenBy The New York TimesSo long as a campaign remains possible, Mr. Biden has appeared mindful of the political backlash against the last Democratic nominee, Hillary Clinton, for earning millions by speaking to private interests in the run-up to 2016, and for her family foundations acceptance of huge sums from corporate and foreign donors.He has imposed telling restrictions on his moneymaking and fund-raising activities: Mr. Biden does not speak for pay to corporate, advocacy or foreign groups and does not consult or sit on boards, said Bill Russo, his spokesman. His nonprofits do not accept contributions from abroad, and the Biden Cancer Initiative does not take money from drug companies, he said.Yet Mr. Biden, whose blue-collar roots have been central to his political persona through six terms in the Senate and two as vice president, has accumulated millions of dollars through a lucrative book deal and selective paid speaking.He also has helped to start three foundations, a political action committee and academic centers at the Universities of Delaware and Pennsylvania. At least 49 staff or board members of the various Biden entities worked previously as aides or advisers to Mr. Biden, or held other positions in the Obama-Biden administration or campaigns. Their salaries and stipends consume a substantial share of the budgets of the six groups, including the philanthropic ones.The list includes Mr. Bidens sister and longtime campaign manager, Valerie Biden Owens, who is vice chairwoman of both the Biden Institute at the University of Delaware and the Biden Foundation, as well as a paid consultant to the institute; Mike Donilon, his strategist across four decades and now the managing director of the institute and a consultant for Mr. Bidens PAC; and Steve Ricchetti, his vice-presidential chief of staff and now the managing director of the Penn Biden Center for Diplomacy and Global Engagement. Another longtime Biden operative, Joshua Alcorn, has been paid by Mr. Bidens PAC while serving as an executive at the Beau Biden Foundation for the Protection of Children.The top compensation, as far as can be determined from Internal Revenue Service records, belongs to Gregory C. Simon, who was projected in a tax exemption application to receive $552,500 a year to run the cancer initiative. Mr. Biden selected Mr. Simon in the final year of the Obama administration to lead the White House Cancer Moonshot Task Force for less than 40 percent of that amount.Mr. Biden declined through his spokesman to be interviewed about his post-vice-presidency. But several people close to him emphasized that he had built his mini-empire not to prepare for 2020 but to make a continuing contribution on matters of longstanding concern.They planned a lot of this under the assumption that Hillary Clinton would be president of the United States, said Sarah Bianchi, a former Biden policy aide who is now a paid senior adviser to the institute.That said, some top staff members will undoubtedly decamp for a campaign if there is one, several advisers said. Whether all the groups could sustain operations is unclear, given that Mr. Biden could face pressure to suspend fund-raising to avoid improper influence.During the 2018 cycle, Mr. Biden maintained visibility with campaign visits to 24 states and at least 135 other speaking engagements, giving him a platform whenever he wanted. At a book-related talk in Missoula, Mont., in early December, he fueled coast-to-coast speculation about his plans by declaring himself the most qualified person in the country to be president.Mr. Biden has long been self-deprecating about his relative lack of wealth, compared with some politicians. He and his wife, Dr. Jill Biden, left office with assets worth between $277,000 and $955,000 (not including their house near Wilmington, Del.), as well as a mortgage of $500,000 to $1 million and other smaller loans, according to a 2015 federal disclosure. The report gives values in ranges.But they have very likely earned more in the two years since leaving office than in the prior two decades, thanks largely to a three-book deal with Flatiron Books reported to be worth $8 million (a figure unconfirmed by the publisher). Two months after the contract was announced, they bought a six-bedroom vacation house in Rehoboth Beach, Del.  off the water  for $2.7 million. No mortgage was recorded.[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]Mr. Bidens only salaried work, according to Mr. Russo, is a Penn professorship that occupies about one day a week. Dr. Biden  who is writing one of the three books  earns $99,398 as an English professor at Northern Virginia Community College, state records show. Mr. Biden, who earned $230,700 a year as vice president, receives a hefty federal pension after 44 years of public service. The couple also receive about $66,000 a year in Social Security benefits and in other pension benefits paid to Dr. Biden, according to their last public tax return, from 2015.Mr. Russo said Mr. Biden would be transparent about his finances if he ran. He will make available his tax returns, financial interests and other information that used to be  and should once again become  commonplace, he said, referring to Mr. Trumps defiance of a four-decade tradition of voluntary disclosure by presidents and many candidates.Mr. Biden has restricted his paid speeches to about 40 ticketed shows and campus appearances, according to Mr. Russo. Most have been shaped around a yearlong tour to promote his 2017 book Promise Me, Dad, a plain-spoken account of the final year of Beau Bidens life. It spent 11 weeks on the New York Times nonfiction best-seller list and has sold more than 300,000 copies, according to NPD BookScan.Mr. Biden did make at least two corporate speeches, to conferences held by a financial services company and by the hedge fund led by Anthony Scaramucci, Mr. Trumps brief-tenured communications director. But he donated the fees to charity and passed on future corporate events, said a person close to him who was not authorized to speak by name.Mr. Biden has spoken subsequently at events for advocacy and partisan groups or underwritten by corporations  health care conferences; a banquet for the Charleston, S.C., branch of the N.A.A.C.P.; the Human Rights Campaigns national dinner  but not for pay, Mr. Russo said.Open records requests to public universities revealed that Mr. Biden had appeared at some without charge  Rutgers in October 2017 and the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, last month. The Nevada school paid $225,000 to the Clinton Foundation for a speech by Mrs. Clinton in 2014.Mr. Russo and Mr. Bidens representatives at Creative Artists declined to disclose his usual fees. But his contract with the University of Utah, obtained through the states freedom of information act, was for $100,000, plus $10,000 for the private plane. In an October email between university officials, one told the other that an agent for Mr. Biden had described that as a discount.The book events feature Mr. Biden being interviewed for an hour by another prominent figure, like the screenwriter Aaron Sorkin or the philanthropist Melinda Gates. Tickets for a recent appearance, in Burlington, Vt., cost $45 to $90, with a meet-and-greet package going for $375.The Bidens pay a staff of five to handle scheduling, media and advance work through a Delaware firm they incorporated called CelticCapri, after his and her Secret Service code names.Nearly all of the former vice presidents closest advisers are attached to one of his centers, full or part time.Mr. Ricchetti, who has been gauging donor support for a Biden candidacy, is at the Penn Biden Center, a foreign policy think tank intended to give the university a higher profile in Washington. Others on the staff include Antony J. Blinken, who was Mr. Bidens national security adviser, and several regional policy experts.At the Biden Institute at Mr. Bidens alma mater, the focus is on domestic issues including strengthening the middle class, gay and civil rights, and violence against women. It is housed within the school of public policy, which was recently renamed for him as well.Administrators at both universities declined to provide budgets or salaries. Their presidents called Mr. Bidens contributions invaluable, particularly in luring dignitaries to their campuses. Among our strategic priorities is bringing Penn to the world and the world to Penn, and who better to do that? said Amy Gutmann, Penns president.Mr. Bidens PAC, American Possibilities, is led by Greg Schultz, a political operative who served as his senior White House adviser. The committee paid him $225,000 over 18 months, records show.The PAC raised $2.5 million during the 2018 midterm cycle from contributors who included the technology entrepreneur Sean Parker and the Hollywood producers Steven Spielberg and Jeffrey Katzenberg. But only 21 percent of its spending was distributed to Democratic candidates and committees  more than 120 in all  while the rest went to salaries and expenses like Mr. Bidens travel.There is modest overlap between Mr. Bidens political donors and the benefactors of the Biden Foundation, the only of his nonprofits that has voluntarily disclosed its donors. Notable is Tim Gill, a Colorado software entrepreneur and influential gay-rights activist, who, with his husband, is listed as giving at least $1 million to the foundation, as well as the maximum $10,000 each to the PAC.The foundation is chaired by Ted Kaufman, Mr. Bidens chief of staff in the Senate and appointed successor after the 2008 election. With Mr. Bidens help, it raised $6.6 million in its first two years, including seven gifts of at least $500,000. The Bidens pitched in $100,000, according to Mr. Kaufman.Staff compensation accounted for 42 percent of the foundations $2.6 million in spending in 2017. That included $256,000 for the executive director, Louisa Terrell, who was deputy chief of Mr. Bidens Senate staff. The foundations website now lists 16 staff members, including policy experts in areas like military families and violence against women.These are people who have been with him doing these kinds of things throughout his career, Mr. Russo said.The Biden nonprofits are not traditional grant-makers, and the only one made by the Biden Foundation was nearly $500,000 to spin off the cancer initiative. That group took in $3.9 million in 2017, including three gifts from undisclosed donors worth at least $1 million, according to tax filings.It spent $1.8 million, more than three-fourths of it on salaries and other compensation. That included Mr. Simons package and a projected $292,500 for the vice president, Danielle Carnival, who had worked on cancer policy in the Obama White House.At the Beau Biden Foundation, based in Wilmington, Del., salaries accounted for 45 percent of spending in 2016 and 2017, while grants accounted for less than 1 percent.Those around Mr. Biden would not speculate about what might happen to the groups if he entered the 2020 race. But at least one set of plans has already been shelved.When the Biden Foundation applied to the I.R.S. for tax-exempt status in February 2016, it stated that one mission would be to educate the public regarding Vice President Bidens career in public service by building a first-of-its-kind vice-presidential library and museum for the study of the vice presidency.Then Donald J. Trump was elected, perversely reviving Mr. Bidens three-decade dream of winning the presidency, a job that comes with its own library. Since that time, said Mark Gitenstein, the foundations president, the board of the Biden Foundation determined that was no longer a relevant objective.Kitty Bennett contributed research.Follow Kevin Sack on Twitter at @ksacknyt.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byAttorney General William P. Barr told congressional leaders in a letter late Friday that the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, has concluded his inquiry into Russian interference in the 2016 election and delivered a report to the Department of Justice. See the letter here and read a transcript below.[Whats next? We break it down as well as the major moments in the case. And heres the latest analysis on Trump and the Mueller report.]________________________Dear Chairman Graham, Chairman Nadler, Ranking Member Feinstein, and Ranking Member Collins:I write to notify you pursuant to 28 C.F.R.  600.9(a)(3) that Special Counsel Robert S. Mueller III has concluded his investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 election and related matters. In addition to this notification, the Special Counsel regulations require that I provide you with a description and explanation of instances (if any) in which the Attorney General or acting Attorney General concluded that a proposed action by a Special Counsel was so inappropriate or unwarranted under established Departmental practices that it should not be pursued. 28 C.F.R.  600.9(a)(3). There were no such instances during the Special Counsels investigation.The Special Counsel has submitted to me today a confidential report explaining the prosecution or declination decisions he has reached, as required by 28 C.F.R.  600.8(c). I am reviewing the report and anticipate that I may be in a position to advise you of the Special Counsels principal conclusions as soon as this weekend.Separately, I intend to consult with Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein and Special Counsel Mueller to determine what other information from the report can be released to Congress and the public consistent with the law, including the Special Counsel regulations, and the Departments long-standing practices and policies. I remain committed to as much transparency as possible, and I will keep you informed as to the status of my review.Finally, the Special Counsel regulations provide that the Attorney General may determine that public release of this notification would be in the public interest. 28 C.F.R.  600.9(c). I have so determined, and I will disclose this letter to the public after delivering it to you.Sincerely,William P. BarrAttorney GeneralMore than two years of criminal indictments and steady revelations about Trump campaign contacts with Russians reveal the scope of the special counsel investigation.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byImpeachment is tempting. But theres a stronger case for waiting for the 2020 election.By Michael TomaskyContributing Opinion WriterLast weekend, a smart friend of mine raised an interesting question: Would political opponents of Donald Trump rather see him removed from office via impeachment and conviction, or would we rather see him voted out of office in 2020?The question has the makings of a parlor game that could occupy the passions of anti-Trump Americans for months. Strong cases can be made for both sides of the argument. I come down on the side of the ballot box, and firmly so, because it has more historical authority and legitimacy  and for one other reason that Ill reveal in a bit.The impeachment side of the argument, though, isnt to be dismissed out of hand. Its true that impeachment is a political process, and getting enough Republicans to support removing a president from their party would take a formidable list of offenses. But to a lot of us, the list is already quite formidable  Mr. Trump has, by any common-sense definition, obstructed justice repeatedly in public. Many House Democrats are raring to go with what they have; Representative Brad Sherman of California has already introduced his own articles of impeachment against Mr. Trump.And there is likely to be much more. For the moment, lets presume that several months from now, Robert Mueller has given us evidence of obstruction, cooperation with Russians during the 2016 campaign and compelling evidence that Russian banks on some level own Mr. Trump. And thats leaving aside everything investigators may be learning about the Trump Organization from Michael Cohen and Allen Weisselberg.Lets also assume that House Democrats will have done their work and, at a minimum, documented numerous and ghastly Trump family violations of the emoluments clause. Remember also on that front that two lawsuits are working their way through the federal courts, so lets imagine that they are allowed to proceed as well. This is to say nothing of the instances of more banal forms of corruption Democrats may have unearthed through their own investigations this year that could rightly be called high crimes and misdemeanors. In sum, let us say that by next football season, the presidents goose will be well and truly cooked, and House impeachment proceedings seem amply justified.There will then hang the question of whether 20 Senate Republicans  at least, assuming that all 47 Democrats would vote to convict  would actually agree to remove Mr. Trump from office. That seems exceedingly unlikely.But whether they would or would not, many would argue that Democrats would still have a constitutional responsibility to exercise. Impeachment is the only remedy the founders provided for removing from office someone who is clearly unfit to hold it. If all of what I stipulated above happens and the Democrats dont act, arent they saying the Constitution is meaningless? If you cant impeach a president whose very election is found to have been illegitimate, then whom can you impeach? And how do you recover, as a country, from such a bitterly partisan episode? Those are good questions. But they have an obvious answer. While impeachment is clearly a valid exercise of power, so is another method of removal, also prescribed by the Constitution: an election. This is how Americans like to ditch presidents and parties they dont like  presidential power has changed hands 44 times in this countrys history.In addition, nine incumbent presidents have lost re-election, including three in the last half-century, and all have peacefully (if not always gracefully) yielded power. In contrast, only two presidents, Andrew Johnson and Bill Clinton, have been impeached by the House, though both were acquitted in the Senate. Richard Nixon, facing certain and imminent impeachment, resigned.Thats a historical record that suggests that an electoral outcome will be much more widely accepted. Mr. Trumps partisans will whine about the unfairness of it all in either case  theyll blame voter fraud, or George Soros, or the fake news media. But if the voters have rebuffed the president, the whining will sound to most Americans like just that.Theres one more reason Id prefer to see Mr. Trump laid low via the ballot. It will do more long-term damage to the Republican Party.If Mr. Trump is removed via impeachment and conviction  that is, with those 20 Republican votes  Republicans can say, See, weve come to our senses; got that out of our system. But if they renominate Mr. Trump and stick with him through November 2020 and the voters clearly say no, not again, Republicans are left sitting in the wreckage. They will be trying to air out the Trump stench for a generation, maybe two, which is precisely the fate they deserve.True, this carries the risk that Mr. Trump might win in 2020. But the impeachment process carries the (considerable) risk that a Senate conviction will fall short, which would enable Mr. Trump to seek re-election as the victim of those vicious Democrats and of the enemy of the people, the press. Nothing in life is risk free.But risks opposite is reward, and in this case the far greater reward  for liberals and Democrats, yes, but also for our democracy itself  is the one that would come on the night of Nov. 3, 2020, when perhaps a record number of voters will cast their ballots and a decisive majority will say to Mr. Trump: Go home.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Michael Tomasky is a columnist for The Daily Beast, editor of Democracy: A Journal of Ideas and a contributing opinion writer.  Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byIsraels right-wing leaders are reading signals from Washington as a green light.By Michael J. KoplowDr. Koplow is an advocate for a viable two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian dispute.On April 9, Israelis will go to the polls to choose their next government. The campaign has largely been a referendum on whether Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu should remain Israels leader in light of his expected indictment in three corruption cases for bribery and breach of trust. With those scandals front and center, policy disagreements have largely been ignored, leaving Israeli voters at risk of unwittingly bringing an avoidable disaster on themselves by annexing territory in the West Bank.President Trump just raised that risk.How so? On Twitter on Thursday, he wrote that it is time for the United States to fully recognize Israels Sovereignty over the Golan Heights, which is of critical strategic and security importance to the State of Israel and Regional Stability! It is the latest, and most important, signal from Washington that Mr. Trump is ready to acknowledge Israeli control of the Golan Heights.But those signals are also being read by the Israeli right wing as an encouragement to pursue annexation of territory in the West Bank  a far more dangerous step that would present Israel with an unparalleled existential threat to its Jewish and democratic character. To be sure, there is a big difference between the two territories, both of which came under Israeli control in the 1967 war. The sparsely populated Golan Heights, seized from Syria and annexed by Israel in 1981 in defiance of international criticism, were being used by Syria to bombard Israels Galilee region below. The West Bank, on the other hand, is densely populated and its future has been the most intractable issue of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict since 1967. Annexing it would foreclose independence for a Palestinian nation, and risk inflaming the entire Middle East.That threat is not beyond the horizon any more. The young, charismatic New Right party leaders Naftali Bennett and Ayelet Shaked, both ministers in Mr. Netanyahus coalition government, lead the annexation movement, and their zeal has seeped into Mr. Netanyahus Likud Party as well. Of the 29 Likud legislators running for re-election, 28 are on record as supporting annexation of at least a part of the West Bank, as is the Likud Central Committee. Most significantly, the speaker of the Knesset, Yuli Edelstein, who is No. 2 on Likuds electoral slate behind Mr. Netanyahu, said on Sunday that a description of the Golan Heights as Israeli-controlled in the recent annual report of the United States State Department  a shift from previous reports that called it Israeli-occupied  represented an important first step toward recognition of Israeli sovereignty in the West Bank.Reaching that goal, however, would create challenges as harrowing as any Israel has faced since its war of independence. As cataloged by the Israeli group Commanders for Israels Security, annexation would cost billions of dollars annually, would create virtually indefensible borders because of the spider web of Israeli-governed territory within the larger West Bank that most supporters of this plan want to annex, provide ammunition to the anti-Israeli Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement, and destroy Israels foreign relations with a host of countries. It would also ensure that the partisan split emerging in the United States over Israels policies toward the Palestinians becomes a chasm. It might even open a rift between Mr. Netanyahu and his stalwart ally President Trump, who thinks himself able to devise an ultimate deal between Israelis and Palestinians, by making any such deal impossible. Most important, annexing the West Bank  whether just the 60 percent of it that Israel controls now, or its entirety  would bring the collapse of security coordination between Israel and the Palestinian Authority and likely cause the demise of the authority, forcing Israel to take over all of the West Bank, like it or not. Israel would then have to grant citizenship to the 2.5 million Palestinians living there, giving itself the choice of no longer functioning as a Jewish state, or destroy its democracy by denying the Palestinians political equality. If anything can truly threaten Israel, the regions pre-eminent military and economic powerhouse, it is that.While Mr. Netanyahu himself has been the sole Likud leader not explicitly supporting annexation in the West Bank, his political predicament might well pull him into the annexationist camp. His legal problems create a strong incentive to form a government that will pass a law barring the indictment of a sitting prime minister. Voter surveys suggest the election next month will result in an almost even split between the Netanyahu-led bloc of Likud and its allied parties, and an opposition bloc led by Benny Gantz. That means Mr. Netanyahu will remain in power at the whim of his preferred right-wing coalition partners, whose leverage over a prime minister seeking to stay out of jail will be enormous. And the item at the top of their wish list is extending Israeli sovereignty to the West Bank.Most worrisome, Israelis have been barely paying attention. As the Israeli journalist Aluf Benn points out, this is a campaign that wont turn on any issues but on Mr. Netanyahu himself. And to the extent that Israelis are paying attention to policy, they are concerned about terrorism and the cost of living, with only 9 percent listing the Israeli-Palestinian conflict as their top concern and just 2 percent listing the future of the West Bank. Even though only 15 percent of Jewish Israelis support annexing the West Bank, a core of right-wing activists are poised to overrun the preferences of a much larger but less ideologically dedicated majority.Should Mr. Netanyahu emerge victorious once again, the prospects of Israel taking this path are alarmingly high. The pro-annexationists have never put forth a detailed proposal of what annexation will entail.Israeli voters may be about to rush headlong into quicksand that they dont even realize exists.Michael J. Koplow is the policy director of the Israel Policy Forum in Washington. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Richard Fausset and Maggie AstorCHARLESTON, S.C.  Democratic presidential candidates wasted no time Friday evening demanding the immediate public release of the long-awaited report from Robert S. Mueller III, with several saying that Americans deserved to know any findings about President Trump, Russia and the 2016 election in order to form judgments about Mr. Trump and the 2020 race.Former Representative Beto ORourke, campaigning in South Carolina on Friday night, told reporters that those facts, that truth, needs to be laid out for all Americans to be able to make informed decisions going forward, whether at the ballot box or in their discussions with their senators and representatives.Mr. ORourke, asked if he supported impeaching Mr. Trump, said he believed the president and his 2016 campaign at least sought to collude with the Russian government to undermine our democracy and that Mr. Trump sought to obstruct justice once in office.I think those are grounds enough for members of the House to bring up the issue of impeachment, he said. But whether they do or not, this will ultimately be decided by the American public at the ballot box in South Carolina and in every state of the union.No voters brought up the Mueller report to Mr. ORourke as he spoke to them Friday. Indeed, in the hours after the announcement of the report, Democratic candidates reacted over Twitter or in remarks at events rather than in back-and-forth conversations with voters.Several candidates, in calling for the swift release of the report, also sought to gather new supporters and their email addresses by putting out petitions calling for complete transparency from the Justice Department.The Trump Administration shouldnt get to lock up Robert Muellers report and throw away the key, Senator Cory Booker argued on Twitter, asking people to sign a petition and provide their names and emails. Such information is often used for future fund-raising solicitations.Within hours of Mr. Muellers completing his investigation, Senator Elizabeth Warren and the campaign arm of House Democrats were already placing ads on Facebook demanding the full reports release, with the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee seeking 100,000 signatures for its online petition.With no detailed information available about the report, Ms. Warren and Mr. Booker  as well as Senators Kirsten Gillibrand and Kamala Harris  sought to focus attention and pressure on how quickly Attorney General William P. Barr would release the full report.Attorney General Barr  release the Mueller report to the American public. Now, Ms. Warren wrote on Twitter.[Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.]Ms. Gillibrand made similar demands and also retweeted the news of the report along with three words: See you Sunday. That is when Ms. Gillibrand plans to formally kick off her 2020 campaign in front of Trump International Tower in New York.Ms. Harris, in addition to calling for the report to be released immediately, called on Mr. Barr to publicly testify under oath about the investigation and its findings.Ms. Harris, Ms. Warren and Ms. Gillibrand also joined Mr. Booker and Senator Bernie Sanders in asking supporters to sign their petitions calling for the reports immediate release.Four other candidates  Senators Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota; Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington; former Representative John Delaney; and Julin Castro  also called for the release of the full report.As Donald Trump said, Let it come out, Mr. Sanders wrote on Twitter. I call on the Trump administration to make Special Counsel Muellers full report public as soon as possible. No one, including the president, is above the law.Shane Goldmacher contributed reporting.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Mihir ZaveriPeople under 21 are no longer able to buy semiautomatic assault rifles in Washington as of Jan 1. It is the first of several new state measures intended to reduce gun violence. The National Rifle Association has already filed suit.Previously, state law barred the assault weapons sale to those under 18. The new rules, approved by voters in a ballot initiative in November, come alongside dozens of moves by other states to strengthen gun control regulations in the absence of federal action.It is a meaningful step in the right direction, said Christian Heyne, legislative director at the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence, on Washingtons initiative. Gun violence on the whole is such a complex problem. We need to have complex solutions, comprehensive solutions. This is a part of that conversation.In addition to the age restrictions, Washingtons new rules state that gun dealers must wait 10 days before delivering semiautomatic assault rifles they sell. That is designed, in part, to prevent impulsive action. The rules also require anyone buying a semiautomatic assault rifle to have completed a gun safety training in the last five years. The measure also imposes criminal penalties for unsafe gun storage, and requires more extensive background checks for purchases of the assault weapons.Most of the new rules take effect in July.Every component is extremely important, said Renee Hopkins, chief executive of the Alliance for Gun Responsibility, the group that sponsored the ballot initiative. This package really looks to reduce suicide, reduce accidental shootings and also reduce everyday gun violence, interpersonal gun violence, that we see playing out.The Nov. 6 ballot initiative passed with more than 59 percent of the vote.According to the Giffords Law Center to Prevent Gun Violence, state legislatures in 2018 passed 69 gun control measures, more than any other year since the Newtown, Conn., massacre in 2012, and more than three times the number passed in 2017. They included adding or improving state background checks, increasing regulations for concealed firearms and restricting firearm use for domestic abusers.Opponents of Washingtons ballot initiative said its provisions to safely store guns would make them unavailable for self-defense. It also said that banning sale of semiautomatic assault rifles to 18- to 20-year-olds would leave already vulnerable segments of the population defenseless to attack. The N.R.A. and the Second Amendment Foundation have filed a lawsuit saying that the age restrictions violate the Constitution.But gun control groups say public pressure has been mounting in response to recent high-profile mass shootings, including the slaughter at a country musical festival in Las Vegas that left 58 people dead and hundreds wounded in October 2017; and multiple shootings in 2018 at schools around the country, particularly at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla. In that shooting, a 19-year-old man killed 17 people with an AR-15 semiautomatic rifle in February.Mr. Heyne said Washingtons move, while not unique, is a bellwether for what could happen in the rest of the country.Gun-related deaths are increasing. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported in December that the nearly 40,000 people who died from firearms injuries in the United States in 2017 was more than any other year since at least 1968. Nearly two-thirds of those deaths were suicides. The rate of gun deaths also increased to 12 deaths for every 100,000 people, the highest since the mid-1990s.Some states like California and Connecticut have near-total bans on assault weapons, according to the Giffords Law Center. Assault weapons, generally thought to be more lethal, have been used in deadly mass shootings like those in Parkland, Las Vegas, Newtown and San Bernardino, Calif.A New York Times analysis published in February found that 173 people have been killed since 2007 in mass shootings involving AR-15s. Yet they dont make up a large chunk of gun violence in America, Mr. Heyne said.Ms. Hopkins said that existing laws already ban the sale of handguns to those under 21, and that the age change for semiautomatic assault rifles seeks to make the law consistent for the different type of firearms.Gun control figured heavily in the 2018 election, as gun control groups outspent the N.R.A. Congress has generally failed to pass any meaningful legislation. A federal ban on the manufacture of certain assault weapons took effect in 1994. It expired in 2004.No attempts to reinstate the federal assault weapons ban have been successful. In December, the Trump administration banned bump stocks, attachments that enable semiautomatic rifles to fire in sustained, rapid bursts.Gun rights organizations have succeeded in blocking other proposals at the federal level. And they are vowing to fight the states as well.The N.R.A. will fight to overturn this unconstitutional initiative, Chris W. Cox, executive director of N.R.A.s Institute for Legislative Action, said of the Washington law, when the lawsuit was announced. We will not sit idly by while elitist anti-gun activists attempt to deny everyday Americans their fundamental right to self-defense.The N.R.A. did not respond to a request for comment Wednesday after the law took effect.The gun lobby is trying to thwart the will of nearly 60 percent of Washingtonian voters who supported common-sense gun reform in our state, Bob Ferguson, the state attorney general, said in a statement Wednesday. We were not surprised the gun lobby filed a lawsuit. I look forward to representing the people of the State of Washington in court against the N.R.A.Follow Mihir Zaveri on Twitter: @MihirZaveri.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON  Representative Ilhan Omar, who has been battling charges of anti-Semitism for weeks, apologized on Monday for insinuating that American support for Israel is fueled by money from a pro-Israel lobbying group  a comment that drew swift and unqualified condemnation from fellow Democrats, including Speaker Nancy Pelosi.The mea culpa by Ms. Omar, a freshman lawmaker from Minnesota and one of the first two Muslim women elected to Congress, came after a day of bipartisan outrage over her tweet Sunday night asserting that support for Israel was all about the Benjamins baby, a reference to hundred-dollar bills.Anti-Semitism is real and I am grateful for Jewish allies and colleagues who are educating me on the painful history of anti-Semitic tropes, Ms. Omar said in a statement released on Twitter, about an hour after Ms. Pelosi and the entire Democratic leadership publicly chastised her for engaging in deeply offensive anti-Semitic tropes.My intention is never to offend my constituents or Jewish Americans as a whole, Ms. Omar wrote, adding, I unequivocally apologize.The verbal altercation between Ms. Pelosi and Ms. Omar was only the latest example of the speaker stepping in to try to keep her diverse and unruly caucus in line. She finagled her own election to the speakership, threw some subtle cold water on Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortezs ambitious Green New Deal and tamped down aggressive talk of impeaching President Trump. In the coming days she may again have to step in to pass an immigration and border security deal that is likely to anger the most liberal wing of the House.But even as Democrats in Congress condemned Ms. Omar, her fierce and persistent criticism of Israel is exposing tensions within the broader party, with younger liberals increasingly willing to accuse the Jewish state of human rights abuses while older stalwarts like Ms. Pelosi stand firmly behind it. Republicans, sensing an opportunity to woo Jewish voters, have sought to exploit those divisions, and on Monday evening, Mr. Trump weighed in.I think she should be ashamed of herself, the president told reporters, referring to Ms. Omar. I think it was a terrible statement and I dont think her apology was adequate.At the same time, Ms. Pelosi is facing questions from Republicans in Congress about whether she went far enough. When Representative Steve King, Republican of Iowa, made comments embracing white supremacy, Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the Republican leader, stripped him of his committee assignments and the House passed a resolution condemning his words.Mr. McCarthy, who was accused of anti-Semitism himself this fall when he said the billionaires George Soros, Michael R. Bloomberg and Tom Steyer were trying to buy the election, has demanded that Ms. Pelosi do the same with Ms. Omar. She serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee  a plum assignment that puts her in a position to influence American policy in the Middle East.So far, the speaker has declined to take that action, but she did coordinate the condemnation of Ms. Omars words from the top five House Democratic leaders.Legitimate criticism of Israels policies is protected by the values of free speech and democratic debate that the United States and Israel share, the five said in their joint statement, in which they called on Ms. Omar to immediately apologize. Congresswoman Omars use of anti-Semitic tropes and prejudicial accusations about Israels supporters is deeply offensive.Ms. Omars Twitter comment linking money from the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, or Aipac, to political support in Washington for Israel played into anti-Semitic tropes that have their roots in the Middle Ages, when Jews were barred from entering most professions and thus became moneylenders  a task that Christians would not take on because of prohibitions against usury.That fueled centuries of stereotypes about Jews using money to control the world. Rabbi Jonah Pesner, director of the Religious Action Center of Reform Judaism, drew an analogy between Ms. Omars comments and those who make light of blackface without understanding the hateful history of minstrel shows and how they were used to dehumanize African-Americans.What she doesnt realize is Aipac, like every other advocacy organization in Washington, is exercising its constitutionally protected rights to advocate on behalf of its agenda, Rabbi Pesner said, adding, When you call it out and differentiate the Jewish community, it feeds that stereotype of controlling the world.In her Twitter statement on Monday, Ms. Omar did not back away from her contention that Aipac has too much power in Washington. At the same time, I reaffirm the problematic role of lobbyists in our politics, whether it be Aipac, the N.R.A. or the fossil fuel industry, Ms. Omar wrote.Critics of Israel say Ms. Omar has a point. In separate interviews on Monday, both Emily Mayer, the national coordinator of IfNotNow, a liberal Jewish group, and Yousef Munayyer, the director of the U.S. Campaign for Palestinian Rights, said Ms. Omar was forcing an important discussion in Washington.Twitter is probably not the best medium for nuanced conversation, Mr. Munayyer said. But I dont think the correct answer is we cant talk about it. I think it is very important in this moment to have a conversation about U.S. relations with Israel.Ms. Mayer said she wholeheartedly accepts Ms. Omars apology for her word choice while also appreciating the moral stance that she takes on this issue, which is pretty unprecedented in todays Congress.Mondays back and forth came on top of earlier flash points that pitted Ms. Omar against Israels fiercest supporters in Congress, Republican and Democrat. She told Yahoo News last month that when politicians still uphold Israel as a democracy in the Middle East, I almost chuckle. That brought back criticism of a 2012 tweet in which she accused Israel of hypnotizing the world to mask its evil deeds.She had been trying to mend fences over those comments when Sunday nights tweet went viral.Before the leaders statement on Monday, other Democrats had broken rank to voice their condemnations. Two House Democrats, Representatives Elaine Luria, a freshman from Virginia, and Josh Gottheimer of New Jersey, released a letter Monday morning calling on Democratic leaders to speak out against any lawmaker who uses harmful tropes and stereotypes, levels accusations of dual loyalty or makes reckless statements like those yesterday.As Jewish members of Congress, we are deeply alarmed by recent rhetoric from certain members within our caucus, including just last night, that has disparaged us and called into question our loyalty to our nation, they wrote. We urge you to join us in calling on each member of our caucus to unite against anti-Semitism and hateful tropes and stereotypes.[Read the letter here.]The two said in interviews that they were referring both to Ms. Omar and to another freshman Democrat, Representative Rashida Tlaib of Michigan, the other Muslim woman in Congress. Ms. Tlaib has also drawn fire for remarks that her critics say fuel anti-Semitic tropes, and Ms. Luria and Mr. Gottheimer recently met with her to express their concerns.Both said they left the meeting disappointed that she did not apologize. Ms. Tlaib, who is Palestinian-American and whose grandmother lives in the West Bank, responded with a statement Monday evening saying in part that her lifes work is centered on equality and justice, adding, I am not easily bullied away from choosing peace and truth dialogue.Other Democrats also weighed in. Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, called it deeply disappointing and disturbing to hear Representative Ilhan Omars (MN) choice of words in her exchange with a journalist yesterday, wherein she appears to traffic in old anti-Semitic tropes about Jews and money.Representative Max Rose of New York, another freshman Democrat, responded directly to Ms. Omar on Twitter, calling her statements deeply hurtful to Jews.But he also chastised reporters at the Capitol for not taking Mr. McCarthy, the Republican leader, to task for saying Jewish philanthropists and political donors were buying the election, comments that he saw as anti-Semitic. Their caucus stayed united and had his back and none of you called him out, he said.The Twitter exchanges began when Ms. Omar responded to a tweet by the journalist Glenn Greenwald. Mr. Greenwald had accused Mr. McCarthy of targeting Ms. Omar and Ms. Tlaib.Thats when Ms. Omar said, Its all about the Benjamins baby.It did not end there. A Jewish journalist asked whom Ms. Omar was referring to when she suggested that money was driving American policy on Israel. AIPAC! she replied. Aipac does not contribute to political campaigns, but its large-scale conferences and congressional trips to Israel have long drawn enthusiastic and bipartisan participation.They have also elicited charges that Aipac has deliberately fed a one-sided view of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict into American politics and squelched any alternative perspectives. Ms. Tlaib has been trying to organize her own congressional trip to the West Bank to give lawmakers the Palestinian side of the issue.Aipac responded with a statement that said: We are proud that we are engaged in the democratic process to strengthen the U.S.-Israel relationship. Our bipartisan efforts are reflective of American values and interests. We will not be deterred in any way by ill-informed and illegitimate attacks on this important work.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported bylettersContinuing reaction to President Trumps declaration of a national emergency so he can build a border wall.To the Editor:Re Trump Calls Emergency, Defying Congress (front page, Feb. 16):Now is the time for all good men and women to come to the aid of their country. The president has crossed a red line, and the people know it.If you have Republican members of Congress, right now is the time to tell them, in no uncertain terms, that you will absolutely not vote for them in 2020 unless they reject President Trumps unconstitutional abuse of authority in declaring an emergency when no such emergency exists.The only thing that will change the course of events in this country is when Republicans start to see their power erode and say no more. When we promise that their own jobs are on the line unless they stand up to President Trumps blatant act of autocracy, the tide will turn and we will begin to reclaim our democracy.Republicans, and Americans who have Republican lawmakers, only you can prevent dictatorship. Call your members of Congress today.Peggy Lee ScottBerkeley, Calif.To the Editor:One of the critical pillars of the American system is that we do not use the military to manage the people. Declaring a false emergency to support government by tantrum is the camels nose: a powerful step toward the dictatorship that President Trump dreams of. This is the blatant bridge too far. If Congress fails to remove this clear and present danger, we must put down our pens and our devices and head, peacefully, into the streets.Ann Norvell GrayRichmond, Va.To the Editor:If President Trump were smart, he would focus on a wall that is actually needed: a firewall against foreign intrusion into our data infrastructure.But our cyberspace isnt a tangible object, like Trump Tower, to which he can point and claim credit. And, after all, its breach is what largely got him elected.Martha D. TrowbridgeNew YorkTo the Editor:Re A Detailed History of Trumps Signature Promise, in His Own Words (graphic, Feb. 17):Your list of President Trumps promises that Mexico would pay for a border wall parallels earlier lists of President Trumps many other such promises. These lists leave us with an overarching question: Did the president know that he was lying  that Mexico would never pay for a wall  in which case he has to be the greatest scoundrel in American political history?Or does he really think that he is uttering actual truths, in which case he is the most delusional person in American political history?Fellow citizens, choose your poison!Manfred WeidhornFair Lawn, N.J.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe president prepares for more denuclearization talks with Kim Jong-un.By HengHeng Kim Song is an editorial cartoonist.President Trump and North Korea's leader, Kim Jong-un, are set to meet again in Hanoi, Vietnam, starting on Wednesday.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Nicholas CaseyWhen Venezuelans took to the streets this week to demand a return to democracy, they chose a date with deep historic significance: Jan. 23, the day a dictatorship collapsed in the face of surging protests more than 60 years ago.But demonstrations alone didnt bring down Venezuelas strongman back then. Only when the military stepped in, with tanks alongside protesters, did the dictatorship fall.Its a playbook that Juan Guaid, the 35-year-old opposition leader who declared himself Venezuelas rightful president to cheering crowds on Wednesday, hoped would be just as relevant today as it was in 1958.While Mr. Guaid earned the official recognition of the United States and more than 20 other countries, he remains a leader without a state. Venezuelas military brass publicly swore allegiance to the nations president, Nicols Maduro, frustrating the oppositions plan to entice the armed forces into breaking ranks and turning the tide in the countrys long slide into authoritarianism.But interviews with current and former military officers offer a more complicated struggle, with many officers wanting Mr. Maduro out and still looking for how it might be done.Factions of officers who have defected say they are plotting returns from their makeshift headquarters in Peru, Colombia and other countries. Rebellious military commanders even held secret meetings with the Trump administration over the last year to discuss their plans to overthrow Mr. Maduro.Inside Venezuela, the militarys ranks have been decimated as thousands of soldiers have deserted because hyperinflation has rendered their paychecks nearly worthless. Some other members of the armed forces say they want to join Mr. Guaids side, but fear the military counterintelligence service, which has punished dissidents ruthlessly.Its not possible to explain the atrocities that our country has endured the last 20 years, said Carlos Guilln Martinez, an army lieutenant who fled the country last year after he claims he was tortured by Mr. Maduros agents. Mr. Guilln says he and others are planning to return with arms if Mr. Maduros government holds this year.We are as firm on this as ever, he said. We keep moving forward and we wont lose our North Star.The crisis in Venezuela has created a untenable standoff  one country with two presidents. On Friday, Mr. Maduro expressed a willingness to meet with the opposition, while Mr. Guaid made his first public appearance since declaring himself the nations legitimate interim president, telling supporters to rally against the authorities if they dare to kidnap me.Both sides in the standoff are courting the military as the gatekeeper of control over the country. The crossroads are familiar for Venezuelas armed forces, which have spent generations enmeshed in the nations politics and repeatedly brokered power during the time of Mr. Maduros predecessor, Hugo Chvez, himself a former army commander.But the crisis marks a large step backward for the region as a whole, which many hoped had left behind its cycle of dictatorships, coups and foreign interventions. As other Latin American countries have strengthened their democracies, Venezuela has followed a different path of increasing instability under Mr. Maduro and uncertainty about the way forward.Its meant the only player in making a final step here is the military, said Alejandro Velasco, a Venezuelan historian who teaches at New York University.The crowds protesting against Mr. Maduro are the product of an economic collapse his government has overseen in recent years. Though Venezuela has the worlds largest proven reserves of oil, the governments economic mismanagement has left the currency worthless, many basic foods are missing from stores and its hospital system is in collapse. More than three million people have fled for other countries.The political instability that led to the economic collapse traces its origin to Mr. Maduros predecessor, Mr. Chvez. A former lieutenant colonel, he came to prominence during the attempted coup he organized in 1992. He won the presidency six years later, beginning what he called a Socialist revolution to redistribute wealth to the countrys poor.While other Latin American countries gradually cemented democratic norms, Venezuelans elected  and repeatedly re-elected  a leader who had tried to overthrow the government by force.By 2002, another military coup was underway, this time supported by Venezuelas opposition, which briefly deposed Mr. Chvez with the approval of the United States. Mr. Chvez responded with purges, and years of attacks against Venezuelas institutions, pushing the country further from democracy.The purges against the military had lasting consequences for Venezuelas armed forces, which were pushed to support Mr. Chavezs party. They influenced young soldiers like Josu Hidalgo, an army lieutenant who said he entered the service under Mr. Chvez and quickly became disenchanted with what he saw on the ground.They told us Socialism is good, he said. But then you could see what was going on, the extreme levels of corruption in the military.Lt. Hidalgo said he was sent to a mining region on the Brazilian border, where he said he witnessed Venezuelan military commanders extorting gold miners and managing shipments of contraband fuel.In 2017, he said he was approached by a dissident military group called the Sword of God. Shortly afterward, he was captured by military intelligence agents but escaped to Brazil, he said.Today, he works with Mr. Guilln, recruiting defectors who have left the country and have expressed interest in returning to start an uprising. During an interview, two of his comrades showed a spreadsheet with hundreds of names, ages, ranks and identification numbers  people they said were interested in joining them.Among the documents were screenshots of what they said was a WhatsApp conversation with a young cadet in Venezuela expressing concern about whether he might be asked to put down the latest wave of protests.Im not going to permit that someone fires on the people, the message said. The cadets are angry. We dont want this government.A former American official said that these disgruntled military officers, along with thousands of other military-aged men who have fled the country, could present a serious challenge to Mr. Maduro if neighboring countries led by right-wing governments  like Colombia and Brazil  mobilized them, or allowed them to mobilize on their own.Mr. Guaids call for the military to join his cause seemed to be gaining momentum with some in the armed forces.On Monday, a group of soldiers posted online videos pledging allegiance to the opposition leader, seemingly responding to his offer of amnesty for defectors. Their calls were followed by clashes at a military base in Caracas, shortly before the government said it had put down a mutiny.On Wednesday, when Mr. Guaid declared himself president, top military brass were silent, leading to speculation that they may have been debating Mr. Maduros fate.But on Thursday, Vladimir Padrino Lpez, an army general serving as defense minister, stood in front of the top commanders of the countrys armed forces to say they would back Mr. Maduro, calling Mr. Guaid laughable.I must alert the people of the danger this represents, he said. Were here to avoid a clash between Venezuelans.Mr. Velasco, the historian, said it was not surprising that Venezuelas top military officials havent backed the opposition.In recent years, Mr. Maduro has faced small uprisings by the nations security forces. Knowing how critical they are to his grip on power, he has offered the military incentives, including control of large parts of the legal economy, along with lucrative drug smuggling routes and other illicit trades, Mr. Velasco said.They are ultimately the ones who not only have the firearms, they are so deeply implicated in the corruption of the state that having them onboard is an absolute necessary condition to pushing out Maduro, Mr. Velasco said.The opposition has been targeting the middle ranks, holding meetings with midlevel officers to explain a recent amnesty law passed by the opposition-led National Assembly for people who defect, according to a prominent opposition member.Carlos Pealoza, a former chief of staff of the Venezuelan Army now in Miami, said he has been in touch with disgruntled midlevel officers in recent weeks and believes that their numbers are enough to overthrow Mr. Maduro, with or without support of Venezuelas top commanders.Many majors, lieutenants and colonels  they began their careers before Chvez, he said, adding that they did not owe allegiance to Mr. Maduro. They were raised in democracy and want to see it restored.Mr. Pealoza said an embargo on Venezuelan oil by the United States might lead to mass defections in the military. The 500,000 barrels a day of petroleum that Venezuela sends to the United States are believed to be the principal source of hard currency for the government, and one of the main incentives top military brass have had to remain loyal.Maduro wouldnt have the money to pay them, he said.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Isabella Grulln PazFrom the Mueller report to the Democratic primary, its been a busy week in American politics. Here are some of the biggest stories you might have missed (and some links if youd like to read further).___________________The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, delivered his findings on Russian interference in the 2016 election to Attorney General William P. Barr on Friday. Now the attorney general must decide how much of the report  one of the most highly anticipated documents in Washington in a generation  to make public. Heres a little more about Mr. Barr.A battle now looms over the executive branchs power to keep information secret from Congress, as Mr. Barr weighs how much to disclose about the report. Democrats wasted no time demanding its immediate release.The report will be a reckoning for the president, to be sure, but also for Congress, Democrats, Republicans, the news media and the system as a whole. It will transform the political landscape and shape the rest of the Trump presidency. Heres a video looking at how we got here.Additional Reading Will the Mueller Report Be Made Public? Answers to 6 Key Questions Russia, Trump and Mueller: The Major Moments in the Case Manafort, Cohen, Stone: The Mueller Indictments Wheres the Mueller Report? Washington Barely Handled the AnticipationDemocratic presidential candidates are bringing grass-roots activism into their campaigns with a new generation of diverse, issue-driven staff members.Support for legal recreational marijuana has unified the candidates  not as a bid for the stoner vote, but as a litmus test for commitment to equal treatment for all races in policing and criminal justice.The word antitrust has been dangerous territory since at least the Reagan administration. But with Senator Elizabeth Warrens proposal to break up giant tech companies, its clear the political winds have shifted.Additional Reading In 2020 Field Full of Women, Some Men Signal They Will Pick a Female Vice President Beto ORourke Raised $6.1 Million Online in First 24 Hours of Campaign Joe Biden Weighing Unique Steps to Reassure Voters Concerned About His AgeWeeks after the failed summit meeting between Mr. Trump and the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, the Treasury Department imposed new sanctions on two Chinese shipping companies for helping North Korea evade import and export restrictions. A day later, Mr. Trump created confusion in his own administration by apparently rolling back those same sanctions.Mr. Trump said in Thursday that the United States should recognize Israels authority over the Golan Heights, one of the worlds most disputed territories, reversing decades of American policy. The United Nations has rejected Israels occupation of the Golan Heights, which was seized from Syria in 1967.Secretary of State Mike Pompeo recommended designating Irans Revolutionary Guards as a foreign terrorist organization. It would be the first time the United States had labeled a unit of another governments military as a terrorist group, and some American officials cautioned it could put troops and intelligence officers at risk.Additional Reading Trump Administration Proposes $86 Billion Spy Budget to Take On Russia and China A New Age of Warfare: How Internet Mercenaries Do Battle for Authoritarian Governments U.S. Campaign to Ban Huawei Overseas Stumbles as Allies Resist Top Democrats on the House and Senate intelligence and judiciary committees have asked the F.B.I. to open investigations into the activities of a Chinese-American woman suspected of trying to sell access to Mr. Trump. Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security secretary, said that cyberthreats against the United States were her top national security priority, not the situation at the southwestern border. For years, the Pentagon has maintained that no civilians have been killed in American airstrikes and raids in Somalia. In a new report released Tuesday, however, Amnesty International put the death toll at 14 since 2017 alone. The report linked the killings to Mr. Trumps decision to relax rules for preventing civilian casualties. Mr. Trumps ability to get his revised North American trade agreement through Congress may hinge on a little-noticed provision governing intellectual property protections for new pharmaceutical products. The provision could undermine Democrats push to make American health care more affordable. Mr. Trump has been unable to shake his grudge against Senator John McCain, who died in August of brain cancer. The president made that clear in front of a military audience at a tank plant, saying that he had given Mr. McCain the funeral he wanted, and I didnt get thank you._____________________Todays On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grulln Paz in New York.Is there anything you think were missing? Anything you want to see more of? Wed love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byPresident Trump vowed in last years speech to pass an immigration overhaul, bring down drug prices and revamp the United States infrastructure. How much progress has he made? By Linda QiuIn his first State of the Union address last year, President Trump outlined his vision for an America first approach to overhauling the immigration system, revitalizing manufacturing and prioritizing national interests abroad. As Mr. Trump prepares to deliver his second address on Tuesday, which is also expected to highlight the presidents immigration agenda, heres an assessment of his progress on the promises he made last year. The promise It is time to reform these outdated immigration rules, and finally bring our immigration system into the 21st century. These four pillars represent a down-the-middle compromise, and one that will create a safe, modern and lawful immigration system. For over 30 years, Washington has tried and failed to solve this problem. This Congress can be the one that finally makes it happen.Attempts to pass a comprehensive immigration overhaul failed in Congress, with proposals backed by the White House receiving the least support.The four pillars Mr. Trump described are providing a pathway to citizenship for the young immigrants known as Dreamers, building a wall on the southern border, ending the diversity lottery visa program and limiting family-based immigration.In February 2018, the Senate rejected three immigration bills. The White House plan, which met all four of Mr. Trumps requirements, received the fewest votes. The two other bills did not fulfill all the requirements. In June, the House rejected another bill that included the four pillars as well as a more hard-line measure that did not provide a pathway to citizenship for Dreamers, who were brought to the country illegally as children.And Mr. Trumps address this year comes after a 35-day government shutdown, the longest ever, over the presidents demand for border wall funding. The promise Chrysler is moving a major plant from Mexico to Michigan; Toyota and Mazda are opening up a plant in Alabama. Soon, plants will be opening up all over the country.Toyota and Mazda broke ground on their $1.6 billion joint venture in Alabama in November. Chrysler had announced that it would move production of heavy-duty pickups  not the plant itself  from Mexico to Michigan, but has since paused those plans.A database maintained by the Reshoring Initiative, a group that encourages companies to move back to the United States, listed plans by Chevrolet to expand car battery production in Michigan, Fords unveiling of a 3-D printing operation in the state and the opening of a new factory in Ohio by a Japanese company that makes prototype parts. But no other company has announced or opened a new assembly plant in the United States. In contrast, General Motors said it would idle five car factories. New rules for automakers in the successor to the North American Free Trade Agreement would require automakers to eventually produce 75 percent  up from 62.5 percent  of a vehicles content in North America to qualify for zero tariffs. But the deal still awaits congressional ratification. And the changes would do little to encourage investment in the United States since most vehicles are going to be able to get over those new thresholds pretty easily, said Kristin Dziczek, vice president for industry, labor and economics at the Center for Automotive Research in Ann Arbor, Mich.Even if the administration raised tariffs on foreign car imports, spurring investment in the United States, automakers would still be mindful of the volatility of Mr. Trumps trade policies and investment would sit on the sidelines, Ms. Dziczek said.Employment in the auto industry has increased slightly under Mr. Trumps watch, to about one million in November 2018 from 955,800 in January 2017. The number of vehicles manufactured in the United States has continued to decline, even after a slight uptick last summer. According to the Reshoring Initiative, announcements to increase investment or move companies back to the United States peaked in 2016.The promise We will work to fix bad trade deals and negotiate new ones. And we will protect American workers and American intellectual property, through strong enforcement of our trade rules.Mr. Trump has renegotiated Nafta and a bilateral trade deal with South Korea.While the changes to the South Korea agreement were modest, the revised Nafta strengthens intellectual property rights in Canada. An investigation into Chinas trade practices concluded that Beijing had, among other unfair trade practices, violated American intellectual property rights. As a result, the Trump administration imposed tariffs on $250 billion worth of Chinese products. The two sides are in talks over a trade deal to resolve the dispute.The promise People who are terminally ill should not have to go from country to country to seek a cure  I want to give them a chance right here at home. It is time for the Congress to give these wonderful Americans the right to try.Mr. Trump signed Right to Try legislation into law in May, allowing terminally ill patients to seek access to experimental medicine that is not approved by the Food and Drug Administration.A similar program known as compassionate use, or expanded access, has been in place since the 1970s, and the F.D.A. says it authorizes 99 percent of the requests it receives. The new law allows patients, with the approval of their doctor, to ask drug companies directly for access, rather than wait for approval by the agency.The promise That is why I have directed my administration to make fixing the injustice of high drug prices one of our top priorities. Prices will come down.Drug prices are still increasing, albeit at lower rates than in previous years.An Associated Press analysis found that from January to July 2018, drug companies raised prices on more than 4,400 products, with a median increase of 5.2 percent. That was lower than the median increase of 8 percent for the same period in 2017. Drug prices have continued to increase on hundreds of medicines this year.The promise Tonight, I am calling on the Congress to produce a bill that generates at least $1.5 trillion for the new infrastructure investment we need.No comprehensive bill has emerged since Mr. Trump nudged Congress to act.A detailed version of Mr. Trumps proposal, released by the White House in February 2018, pledged $200 billion in federal funding (less than half of what the Trump transition team promised in December 2016). The money would come from savings from other cuts in the federal budget, according to the White House, and would spur states and private companies to invest $1.5 trillion in infrastructure over the next decade.Yet Congress has not passed any bill that would make good on this $200 billion proposal. Draft legislation to temporarily increase the gas tax to shore up the Highway Trust Fund was never formalized or voted on.The promise I call on the Congress to empower every cabinet secretary with the authority to reward good workers  and to remove federal employees who undermine the public trust or fail the American people.Mr. Trump signed an executive order in May making it easier to fire government employees, but a federal judge struck down most of its provisions. A similar bill was introduced in the House but did not advance to a vote.The promise For this reason, I am asking the Congress to end the dangerous defense sequester and fully fund our great military.While Congress has not yet repealed the defense sequester limiting military spending, lawmakers effectively ignored it and increased funding last year.The Budget Control Act of 2011 imposes caps on federal spending for the next decade, to compel Congress to find savings in the budget. If lawmakers do not reduce spending, sequestration kicks in and enforces the caps. Later spending deals raised the caps, limiting military spending to $549 billion in the 2018 fiscal year and $562 billion in the 2019 fiscal year.Mr. Trump signed legislation that allotted the Pentagon $629 billion and $647 billion in 2018 and 2019 fiscal years, far exceeding the spending limits. (Those figures do not include a separate Pentagon account for war spending.)While the sequester is still in place for the 2020 and 2021 fiscal years, it is not difficult to imagine lawmakers and the president continuing to raise the cap  rendering the sequester moot.The promiseThat is why, tonight, I am asking the Congress to pass legislation to help ensure American foreign-assistance dollars always serve American interests, and only go to Americas friends.Congress ignored Mr. Trumps calls to drastically reduce foreign aid, instead approving budgets that included billions more than the president had requested, and made no significant changes to foreign aid policy.Sarah Rose, an analyst at the Center for Global Development, said the administration had been constrained by Congress  and its own fundamental inconsistency in funneling money to friends and allies while simultaneously giving aid to countries that might not otherwise receive it in order to counter Chinas influence. Mr. Trump has threatened to cut off aid to Central American countries over migrant caravans, and Nikki R. Haley, the former ambassador to the United Nations, had proposed making aid contingent on support for American-backed policies at the United Nations.Yet the amount of assistance given to Honduras, Guatemala and El Salvador has been typical. And while the United States did end funding for Palestinian refugees in August, it did not follow through on withholding aid from countries that voted for a United Nations resolution condemning Mr. Trumps decision to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, said Jeremy Konyndyk, a former director of the foreign disaster assistance program at the United States Agency for International Development.The issue is that he made a promise that was well beyond his ability to accomplish, Mr. Konyndyk said. The president is not a monarch and cant just do things unilaterally.Linda Qiu is a fact-check reporter, based in Washington. She came to The Times in 2017 from the fact-checking service PolitiFact.  @ylindaqiu Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Keith Bradsher and Ana SwansonBEIJING  A senior Chinese trade official called on Saturday for a compromise between the United States and China that could make a trade deal easier to reach this spring. But it could also lead to a more fragile agreement, which could fall apart quickly should trade frictions rise again.Over the past year, the most contentious issue in the countries trade talks has been the Trump administrations demand for what it calls an enforcement provision, which would allow the United States to monitor Chinas behavior and put penalties in place if the Chinese violated the deal.The Trump administration has pressed China to accept an agreement allowing the United States to unilaterally reimpose tariffs if it concludes that China has not gone through with structural changes to its economy. In the past month, the administration has also pushed for a broader enforcement mechanism, which would include the right to reimpose tariffs for any category of goods in which imports from China surge.In exchange, the Trump administration would roll back at least some of the tariffs it placed on $250 billion of imports from China that it imposed last year, penalties that have strained ties between the governments, rocked financial markets and thrown the future of companies that operate in both countries in doubt.Chinese officials have strongly resisted the idea of an enforcement provision. They worry that the Trump administration, or future ones, could invoke it at any time to restart trade frictions.But Wang Shouwen, Chinas vice minister of commerce for international trade negotiations, raised a possible compromise at a news conference in Beijing on Saturday morning. He said China would be amenable to an agreement that gave each side an equal right to take trade actions against the other side after an agreement was struck.Any implementation mechanism must go in both directions, fair and equal, Mr. Wang said, using Chinas preferred term for an enforcement mechanism. He spoke at an annual news conference given by the Chinese Commerce Ministrys top officials, in conjunction with the 11-day session of the countrys rubber-stamp legislature, the National Peoples Congress.Mr. Wang did not address another aspect of the enforcement question that has deeply divided the United States and China. While the Trump administration wants the right to reimpose tariffs unilaterally, Chinas Commerce Ministry has favored creating a lengthy process of bilateral consultations if either side has a grievance.In testimony before Congress on Feb. 27, Robert Lighthizer, Mr. Trumps top trade negotiator, outlined a possible method for enforcing the deal under which the two sides would hold a regular series of meetings at multiple levels of government, and, if China violated the agreement, American tariffs would spring back into force.The details of that proposal arent fully clear. But some American businesses are wary of a deal that would only allow them to air complaints through the government, as Mr. Lighthizers description seemed to suggest. They said such an arrangement could be time-consuming and ultimately lack the capacity to address many of the problems faced by the thousands of American companies operating in China.Other trade deals that the United States has signed in the past have included different methods that companies could use to resolve problems, like a special court for investors. But the Trump administration has been suspicious of those kinds of arrangements, viewing them as a potential infringement on American sovereignty.American businesses also contend that having the main penalty for violating the agreement be the reimposition of tariffs risks creating lasting uncertainty. The companies are now weighing whether to continue to invest in China or whether the prospect of additional levies would make it less risky to move operations abroad.As long as the threat of tariffs looms, the United States and China could resolve their differences in the coming months, only to find themselves back in a similar stalemate next year.We could definitely see ourselves in yet another period of uncertainty, said Erin Ennis, senior vice president of the U.S.-China Business Council.Mr. Wang did not answer a question about whether Mr. Trump and President Xi Jinping might meet in Florida this month to seal a trade deal. Tentative plans for such a summit meeting have been put in doubt by continued disagreement over an enforcement mechanism, and over what limits China might accept on its ability to subsidize high-tech manufacturing.If the two sides agree on an enforcement provision that covers import surges, it might be more useful to the United States.Research by Brad Setser, who was a Treasury economist in the Obama administration and is now at the Council on Foreign Relations in New York, has found broad stagnation in American exports of manufactured goods over the past few years, a possible sign of eroding American competitiveness. By contrast, Chinese exports to countries all over the world have been surging.China wants the United States to remove all of the extra tariffs that Mr. Trump imposed last year. That would leave China with its average tariffs of 7.5 percent on imports from all over the world, compared to 5 percent for the European Union and 3 percent for the United States.China contends that it is still a developing country and therefore should not have to operate under the same trade rules as the West. Commerce Minister Zhong Shan said at the news conference on Saturday that any reform of the World Trade Organization, which the Trump administration has sought to overhaul, should respect the different needs of developing countries.Mr. Trump has promised an ambitious agreement that would address ever-rising American trade deficits with China at a time when Beijing poses a growing geopolitical challenge to the United States. China has built the worlds largest navy and an archipelago of air bases on artificial islands in the South China Sea, and it has tried to promote its combination of single-party authoritarianism and state-led economic growth as a global alternative to democracy and free markets.But the overall United States trade deficit, and specifically its deficit with China, further increased last year. Congressional Democrats have become increasingly critical of Mr. Trump on trade in recent days, accusing him of having become too willing to accept a weak deal just to have an agreementMr. Trump and his advisers continued to present a tough front on Friday, even as the president predicted a jump in the stock market if a trade deal were to be reached. If this isnt a great deal, we wont make a deal, he added.Mr. Wang said there had been progress during trade talks last month in Washington  and at least one moment of harmony. Vice Premier Liu He of China ordered a hamburger, while Mr. Lighthizer had a Chinese dish, chicken with eggplant sauce. Mr. Wang said the two men turned down offers of tea and coffee.They were both drinking water, they wanted to find common ground, he said.Follow Keith Bradsher on Twitter: @KeithBradsher.Keith Bradsher reported from Beijing and Ana Swanson from Washington. Ailin Tang contributed research from Beijing.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Zolan Kanno-YoungsSAN PEDRO, Calif.  The Coast Guards top officer laid out a dedicated campaign on Thursday to improve diversity in a military branch that has long struggled to recruit women and minorities, weeks after the service was shaken by the arrest of a lieutenant and self-described white nationalist accused of plotting terrorist attacks from its headquarters.Adm. Karl L. Schultz, speaking in his first State of the Coast Guard address since being named the services 26th commandant in June, later acknowledged that the goal to make the service more inclusive would be challenging after the Defense Department issued a policy that will force future transgender members of the military to identify as their biological sex.Were going to treat everybody with respect. Theres some changes that come with this policy, and were bound to follow that policy, Admiral Schultz said at the Coast Guard Los Angeles-Long Beach Base before scores of Coast Guard and California law enforcement officials. Theres some that feel, Hey, youre breaking ranks with the transgender community. I would say, well see how it goes.He also faces a major challenge on other diversity fronts: Out of its 41,159 members, just 14.6 percent are women, 13.7 percent are Hispanic and 5.9 percent are African-American.Admiral Schultz dedicated much of his speech to emphasizing the need to improve retention of women and minorities, and highlighting steps to do so.The Coast Guard will commission a study to explore improving retention among underrepresented minorities and is planning next week to release data from a similar study on the retention of women, he said. It will also use staffing from reserves to support new parents wanting to go on leave and to ease restrictions on recruits with tattoos. Admiral Schultz also said he hoped emerging opportunities in cybersecurity would attract new, younger talent.These actions are the first steps in a dedicated campaign to identify barriers to inclusion, and to help frame solutions that challenge the status quo, Admiral Schultz said. They are small ripples that will lead to a groundswell of cultural change.The Coast Guard has suffered in part because of an image that its work is limited to finding those lost at sea and towing ships, when in reality the organization operates as a military and law enforcement service whose members travel throughout the world as part of the intelligence community. It also struggled during the latest government shutdown, when its service members went weeks without a paycheck. Admiral Schultz said he expected the Coast Guard to fully recover by June 1.The transgender policy has also created a hurdle  one that Admiral Schultzs predecessor, Paul F. Zukunft, challenged in 2017, when the former commandant said he would continue to support transgender members of the Coast Guard the same day President Trump tweeted about barring them from the military.Lawyers for transgender service members have said the policy, which the Supreme Court allowed to take effect this year while litigation continues, amounts to a ban on transgender people. Defense Department officials have rejected that assertion, saying transgender service members can still serve.Although the Coast Guard is under the Department of Homeland Security, not the Defense Department, the master chief petty officer of the Coast Guard, Jason M. Vanderhaden, said it was important that the organization follow a policy consistent with other arms of the military so it could deploy its members to assist those branches without any restrictions.After Admiral Schultzs speech, he gave Senator Lisa Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, a tour of the Forrest Rednour, a Coast Guard cutter typically used to intercept drug and human traffickers.Ms. Murkowski said she looked forward to results of the womens retention study and was looking to see if there were similar struggles in other branches of the military.The message of an all-inclusive Coast Guard, I think its important for the Coast Guard and all members of our armed service, Ms. Murkowski said.The speech came weeks after the arrest of the Coast Guard lieutenant and self-described white nationalist in Maryland on gun and drug charges. Prosecutors said the suspect, Lt. Christopher Paul Hasson, plotted to kill prominent journalists and Democratic politicians, as well as what he called, leftists in general.In his first public comments about the arrest, Admiral Schultz asked the public to judge the 228-year-old organization on the fiber of our character.It tells us you need to be alert and aware in our workplaces, Admiral Schultz told reporters before the speech. People can have a work life and an outside-work life. So it heightens all our awareness about keeping our senses being intrusive leaders.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy David E. Sanger and William J. BroadWASHINGTON  President Trump was forced to publicly acknowledge this past week what American intelligence officials said they had long been telling the White House: Even during eight months of blossoming diplomacy, Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, was steadily adding to his weapons arsenal and nuclear infrastructure.Three times, Mr. Trump told reporters that he would be very disappointed if North Korea was preparing to launch a space rocket that intelligence officials believe could help Mr. Kim perfect the means to heave a nuclear warhead across the ocean. Satellite imagery taken Friday, and analyzed by the Beyond Parallel program of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, shows that the North has continued preparations on the launching pad at Sohae consistent with readying for the delivery of a rocket.American officials said the reconstruction there began long before Mr. Trump left Washington in late February for a summit meeting with Mr. Kim in Hanoi, Vietnam, where talks abruptly ended.The rebuilding at Sohae was not the only work underway.While North Korea blew up the entrances to its major underground testing site at Punggye-ri in May, it never allowed in inspectors, as promised, to determine whether the facility had actually been destroyed. Commercial satellite photographs suggest the buildings containing the control rooms and computers used to trigger and study the explosions were carefully mothballed.And in the time between Mr. Trump and Mr. Kims first meeting, in Singapore in June, and their second in Hanoi, intelligence estimates suggest that North Korea produced enough uranium and plutonium to fuel a half-dozen new nuclear warheads.The evidence that North Korea was moving ahead with its weapons program was clear, according to American intelligence officials familiar with the briefings provided to Mr. Trump. But the president sought to soften it in public to avoid imperiling negotiations, the officials said.At a news conference late last month in Hanoi, Mr. Trump was still in that mode, suggesting the evidence that North Korea was adding to its ability was ambiguous.Some people are saying that and some people arent, he said.But for an administration that regularly acknowledges or dismisses intelligence findings to fit the moment, North Korea has served as a comeuppance.Mr. Trumps aides have been forced to back away from his now famous tweet, issued soon after the Singapore meeting, that there is no longer a Nuclear Threat from North Korea. As long as the threat remains, they now say, so will American-led sanctions against Pyongyang.On Thursday, a senior administration official told reporters that the United States remained open to continuing discussions with North Korea. But the official asserted that sanctions would not be lifted until all the threats were removed  which he defined as the Norths entire nuclear program, complex of road-mobile missiles and chemical and biological weapons programs.That is a far broader demand than the Trump administration has previously detailed in public, and was at the core of the collapse of the discussions in Hanoi.Mr. Kim had offered to close an aging nuclear plant at Yongbyon in exchange for the lifting of some of the toughest sanctions imposed on North Korea. To his surprise, Mr. Kim was told that the United States would not lift all sanctions until the North surrendered its entire weapons program.By all accounts, Mr. Kim believed Mr. Trump was desperate for a deal and would accept a more gradual approach  a partial disarmament leading to partial sanctions relief. Unable to bridge the gap, they walked away, though Mr. Trump insisted they agreed to continue talking. No further negotiations have been scheduled.North Korea, for its part, is using its continued production of nuclear material to pressure Mr. Trump  making clear its ability to pose a threat will only grow unless the United States eases its demands.For all the talk, nothing has really changed, said Victor Cha, whom Mr. Trump considered appointing as American ambassador to South Korea. They are playing the same old game of putting pressure on the U.S.The White House and State Department say that is not the case. The continued moratorium on nuclear and missile tests, officials said, has slowed Mr. Kims progress and kept him from demonstrating that North Korea could launch a warhead that could hit an American city.Some independent analysts agree with the Trump administrations rationale, but worry the moratorium may be coming to an end.North Koreas satellite launching site at Sohae, on the Yellow Sea, offers a case study in the deep ambiguity of the dismantlement and denuclearization claims by both sides.The site is important because the North has test-fired powerful rocket engines there on a giant experiment stand and, at the nearby launching pad, successfully cast two satellites into space. The United States has declared that space launches violate the commitment that Mr. Kim made to Mr. Trump in Singapore, and later to President Moon Jae-in of South Korea, to suspend all missile and nuclear tests.Modern and comfortable, with a high observation station, the site represents the jewel of North Koreas rocket agenda. Analysts say the engine test stand played a major role in developing the fiery thrust for the Norths intercontinental ballistic missiles, whose repeated launchings in 2017 terrified the world.In June, after the summit meeting in Singapore, Mr. Trump declared that Mr. Kim had told him the North was already destroying the sprawling site. Thats a big thing, he told reporters. The site is going to be destroyed very soon.Challenged by reporters about the Norths past record of broken promises, Mr. Trump added: Honestly, I think hes going to do these things. I may be wrong. I mean, I may stand before you in six months and say, Hey, I was wrong.I dont know that Ill ever admit that, he said with a smile, but Ill find some kind of an excuse.That enthusiasm proved premature. For the next eight months, analysts poring over satellite images of the densely wooded site at Sohae found little evidence of dismantlement. No major structures were changed, destroyed or disassembled.Instead, the images showed the opposite: evidence that North Korea was completing work on an extensive building complex next to the launching pad at Sohae. Rather than disassemble the site, as Mr. Kim had promised, it was expanding.We all watched it go up and kept wondering, What is it? recalled Jenny Town, a senior official at 38 North, a research project and website of the Stimson Center, a Washington think tank, which tracks political and technical developments in North Korea.They are still wondering. No one is certain about the purpose of the structure  or if it has an intent other than to stoke fear in the United States.This past week, 38 North and Beyond Parallel reported that reconstruction at the Sohae site had greatly accelerated.Based on commercial satellite imagery, efforts to rebuild these structures started sometime between February 16 and March 2, 2019, 38 North said in its report on Tuesday.The summit meeting in Hanoi began on Feb. 27  suggesting the construction was intended to give Mr. Kim some leverage in his talks with Mr. Trump.As of Friday, administration officials were telling allies they still did not know if North Korea planned to resume missile launches at Sohae. But Mr. Trump no longer denounces news reports of expanded missile bases or revived test sites as fake news, as he did before the meeting in Hanoi.In late January, the president even called in the director of national intelligence, Dan Coats, and the director of the C.I.A., Gina Haspel, to demand they pull back recent public declarations that North Korea was not likely to ever give up its entire weapons arsenal and production facilities.Two days later, Mr. Trump said the problem lay not in the intelligence officials testimony but in the news coverage about it. One senior official later said the deflection was all about avoiding criticism of Kim. The official spoke on the condition of anonymity because the presidents meeting with the intelligence chiefs was intended to be private.Ms. Town said the satellite site expansion and rebuilding at Sohae reminded her of a similar episode at the Yongbyon nuclear research center, the main known site for the processing of fuel for nuclear weapons.Last year, North Korea finished building a large facility across from Yongbyons experimental light water reactor. Analysts believe the reactor could double the Norths supply of weapons-grade plutonium, producing more fuel for its nuclear arsenal.Why do that if its on the bargaining table? Ms. Town said of the construction at Yongbyon, which Mr. Kim had offered to close if the United States agreed to lift sanctions. There are a few of these cases where it could be part of a hedging strategy.Then there are the headquarters at Punggye-ris mountainous atomic test site  a mile-high peak full of tunnels where North Korea has set off its nuclear detonations.In November, 38 North analysts reported that, contrary to reports of the sites destruction and abandonment, the two largest buildings at Punggye-ris command center remained intact, as did nearby support facilities for personnel and security forces.The lack of dismantlement, the analysts concluded, suggested that the site may only be mothballed, with reactivation possible.David E. Sanger reported from Washington, and William J. Broad from New York.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Glenn ThrushOne night a year, during the State of the Union address, President Trump sets aside his affinity for combat to offer up 90 minutes of stand-up comity to a national audience.The agenda I will lay out this evening is not a Republican agenda or a Democrat agenda, Mr. Trump said, opening his speech on a conventionally presidential note on Tuesday. It is the agenda of the American people. A couple of hours earlier, during a private lunch with network anchors that did not stay private long, Mr. Trump called Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, nasty, described former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. as dumb, ripped into Senator John McCain, and derided Senator Elizabeth Warren as Pocahontas.The speech itself, embedded with patriotic language and delivered in a reassuring tone, veered between two moods  combative and conciliatory  reflecting a president at a crossroads ahead of an uncertain 2019.Here are four takeaways.For more than a month, Mr. Trump has threatened to invoke a state of emergency along the southern border with Mexico, in an attempt to circumvent Congress, which has refused to give him $5.7 billion for a border wall.But it was not until this week that Senate Republicans  many of whom vehemently oppose the idea on the grounds that it tramples legislative prerogative  made it clear that diverting funding from other projects for a wall, in the name of a national emergency, was a nonstarter.For the moment, Mr. Trump heeded their wishes. The emergency declaration was not among his demands for increased border security.It was, to a significant degree, an act of political self-protection.At the weekly Republican Senate lunch held in the Capitol a few hours before Mr. Trumps speech, Senator John Thune of South Dakota, the majority whip, was asked about the likelihood of the president invoking emergency powers. Mr. Thune replied by saying he believed that the president would avoid a confrontation with his own party because too many Republicans opposed it  and it would take only four Republican defections to pass a measure opposing the move.Mr. Trump would do the right thing, he predicted, because all you have to do is count to four, Mr. Thune quipped, according to a person in attendance.Mr. Trump began the night by optimistically playing up a new opportunity in American politics, if only we have the courage to seize it.And he expressed support for a variety of popular initiatives that enjoy widespread popularity among Democrats, including new funding to eradicate AIDS, a campaign to reduce childhood cancers and yet another commitment to try to fix the countrys crumbling infrastructure.Then, about 15 minutes into the address, Mr. Trump hit on an issue foremost in his consciousness  the looming threat of congressional investigations into his conduct.First, he offered what amounted to a plea for the new Democratic majority in the House to avoid ridiculous partisan investigations and cautioned his enemies not to seek revenge against him.Then came the bluntest of threats to the woman sitting behind him, Speaker Nancy Pelosi: If there is going to be peace and legislation, there cannot be war and investigation. It just doesnt work that way! he said.We must be united at home to defeat our adversaries abroad, he said.Already facing a divided Congress, Mr. Trump has been rebuked by members of his own party in recent days over his decision to pull troops from Syria and his demands for a border wall.In response, he invoked two issues that have been used to rally divided conservatives for decades  the fights against abortion and socialism.There could be no greater contrast to the beautiful image of a mother holding her infant child than the chilling displays our nation saw in recent days, he said, referring to efforts by Democrats in New York and Virginia to loosen restrictions on abortion rights.In recent days, Republicans on Capitol Hill have been circulating talking points urging them to highlight plans by Democrats, including the freshman Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, to increase taxes on the wealthy.Here, in the United States, we are alarmed by new calls to adopt socialism in our country, Mr. Trump said. America was founded on liberty and independence  and not government coercion, domination and control.Mr. Trump dedicated several minutes to listing his economic accomplishments on behalf of women as he faced row upon row of seats occupied by Democratic women wearing white, in a visual demonstration of their unprecedented power in a House run by one of their own.No one has benefited more from our thriving economy than women, who have filled 58 percent of the newly created jobs last year, said Mr. Trump, who seemed genuinely surprised by the thunderous applause it evoked from women on both sides of the aisle.You werent supposed to do that, said the president, who went on to praise the record-breaking election of 117 women to Congress in 2018.That, too, garnered a hearty ovation. He has a long way to go, however.Recent polls show that large majorities of women disapprove of his performance.With 10 days left for Congress to pass a border security package and avert another government shutdown, Mr. Trump devoted a significant portion of his speech to making the case for his signature campaign proposal: a wall at the southern border.This is a smart, strategic, see-through steel barrier  not just a simple concrete wall, he said, adding, Simply put, WALLS WORK and WALLS SAVE LIVES.But as Mr. Trump raised the time frame to keep the government fully funded, the Democrats tensed and Republicans continued to applaud. Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota, buried her head in her hands. As he detailed a litany of familiar talking points about caravans marching toward the United States, there was a disgruntled round of groans, punctuated by a couple boos as they looked around at each other, shaking their heads.[Trump wants a border wall. Heres whats in place already.]Representative Veronica Escobar, Democrat of Texas, whose district includes most of El Paso, was visibly angry after Mr. Trump referenced her district and the decrease in crime. She appeared to mouth that it was safe before the wall and after the wall. Oh my God, oh my God, she mouthed to her colleagues, her arms crossed as other representatives looked over in her direction.There were also some unhappy murmurs when he described the increase in troops at the southern border and scoffs at his description of the savage MS-13 gang.The audience for Mr. Trumps State of the Union address looked like a striking sea of white, with Democratic women  many dressed in white in a nod to the womens suffragist movement  sitting together. Midway through the presidents speech, they did something completely unexpected: They stood up and cheered.No one has benefited more from our thriving economy than women, who have filled 58 percent of the newly created jobs last year, Mr. Trump said, prompting the women to roar their approval. After all, many of them had new jobs, in the House, which they took from men.You werent supposed to do that, the president said, smiling.All Americans can be proud that we have more women in the work force than ever before, Mr. Trump went on, adding, Dont sit yet. Youre going to like this.And then he delivered his biggest applause line: Exactly one century after Congress passed the constitutional amendment giving women the right to vote, we also have more women serving in Congress than at any time before.It was a striking moment for a president who has been routinely accused of misogyny, who paid hush money to a pornographic film actress and a Playboy model and who spoke in vulgar terms as he admitted on videotape that he had sexually assaulted women.Stacey Abrams, the former minority leader of the Georgia legislature, narrowly lost her bid to be the first African-American female governor in the South, but it was the way she lost  amid charges of voter suppression and vote rigging  that really rankled.In choosing Ms. Abrams to give the Democratic response, her partys leaders were tapping a crusader for voting rights, and that is what she delivered.While I acknowledged the results of the 2018 election here in Georgia, I did not and we cannot accept efforts to undermine our right to vote, Ms. Abrams said. This is the next battle for our democracy, one where all eligible citizens can have their say about the vision we want for our country. We must reject the cynicism that says allowing every eligible vote to be cast and counted is a power grab. Americans understand that these are the values our brave men and women in uniform and our veterans risk their lives to defend.She also tackled race, even as a Democratic governor, Ralph Northam of Virginia, fights for his political survival after photos of a man in black face and another in a Ku Klux Klan robe emerged in his medical school yearbook.We fought Jim Crow with the Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act, yet we continue to confront racism from our past and in our present, she said, which is why we must hold everyone from the very highest offices to our own families accountable for racist words and deeds  and call racism what it is: wrong.Mr. Trump plans to sit down with North Koreas leader, Kim Jong-un, this month in Vietnam, a country chosen as a neutral location for their second nuclear summit meeting, but one that also has plenty of symbolic significance.Mr. Trump hopes the meeting will jump-start a diplomatic effort that has stalled since their first encounter, last June in Singapore. While North Korea since then has refrained from overtly provocative actions like testing nuclear warheads or ballistic missiles, it has yet to agree to actually give up any piece of its atomic arsenal.Much work remains to be done, but my relationship with Kim Jong-un is a good one, Mr. Trump said. Chairman Kim and I will meet again on February 27th and 28th in Vietnam.After spending the first portion of his speech patting himself on the back for what he views as his administrations accomplishments, including low unemployment, Mr. Trump issued a stern warning to the Democrats now in charge of the House.An economic miracle is taking place in the United States  and the only thing that can stop it are foolish wars, politics or ridiculous partisan investigations, he said. If there is going to be peace and legislation, there cannot be war and investigation. It just doesnt work that way!Speaker Nancy Pelosi smirked behind him. Representative Adam Schiff of California, chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, smiled. He has already begin examining whether money laundering could have motivated Mr. Trumps coziness with Russian oligarchs.This years State of the Union address was the second longest in recorded history, according to the American Presidency Project at the University of California, Santa Barbara. The projects data dates to 1964. Tonights address surpassed Mr. Trumps first State of the Union speech by about two minutes, but falls short of former President Bill Clintons 2000 address by about six minutes.President Trump delivered a message of bipartisan unity on Tuesday night in his first address to Congress in the new era of divided government, but any hope of enduring harmony was dispelled long before he arrived at the Capitol.Mr. Trump, who has warred with Democrats for weeks over his plan to build a wall along the nations southwestern border, hoped to use the nationally televised speech to present himself as a leader who can work across party lines even as he continued to press lawmakers to give him money for the barrier.Together, we can break decades of political stalemate, Mr. Trump told lawmakers from the rostrum of the House of Representatives. We can bridge old divisions, heal old wounds, build new coalitions, forge new solutions and unlock the extraordinary promise of Americas future. The decision is ours to make.Mr. Trump signaled that he would not back off his hard-line immigration policies that have polarized the country. No issue better illustrates the divide between Americas working class and Americas political class than illegal immigration, he was to add, according to excerpts released by the White House. Wealthy politicians and donors push for open borders while living their lives behind walls and gates and guards.Read more from Peter Baker.Speaker Nancy Pelosi was spared any discomfort that might have come with the ritual introduction of the president of the United States. The president jumped the gun.Before she could utter the traditional, Ladies and gentlemen, I give to you the president of the United States, Mr. Trump had already started speaking.While Mr. Trump forgot to have Ms. Pelosi introduce him, another Republican president  George W. Bush  made a big deal of Ms. Pelosis introduction of him in 2007, the year she first became speaker.Tonight, I have a high privilege and distinct honor of my own  as the first president to begin the State of the Union message with these words: Madam Speaker, Mr. Bush said then.[Fact Check: What President Trump Got Right and Wrong in His Speech]Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported bylettersThe American people need to know whether their president is a Russian asset, says a reader. To the Editor:Re F.B.I. Investigated if Trump Worked for the Russians (front page, Jan. 12):The F.B.I. had enough evidence to open up a counterintelligence investigation of the president of the United States. This is a mind-boggling pronouncement. That the investigators considered the president a possible threat to national security is in and of itself a startling proposition. We should all take stock of the state of our nation. The American people need to know whether their president is a Russian asset. We need to know that our nation is secure. We need to know if the president, whether wittingly or unwittingly, is acting against American interests and in the national interests of Russia. Did he conspire with a foreign entity to manipulate our electorate?We need answers, and we need them now. Our nation is in peril, and we cannot wait patiently for investigations to play out. Therefore, it is incumbent upon the special counsel, Robert Mueller, to assuage our fears, or confirm them, by giving us a clear conclusion to his investigations in the very near future. Ellen Silverman PopperWhitestone, QueensTo the Editor:Why are people surprised that the F.B.I. investigated whether President Trump was working for the Russians? Of course the agency would be suspicious, and it is its job to investigate when suspicious.From my perspective, as someone who knows about spies and counterintelligence only from newspapers, books, movies and TV, Mr. Trump has been doing everything that Vladimir Putin would want him to do, right from the start. The list is too long for this letter, but it has been obvious  everything from asking the Russians to find Hillary Clintons missing emails, to firing James Comey, to picking fights with our allies, to private meetings with Mr. Putin. Mr. Trump is the Manchurian candidate for real. And the next question is, why has Senator Mitch McConnell let him get away with this? Elly SidelNorwalk, Conn.To the Editor:Every meeting attended by the president should be recorded digitally and by a transcriptionist. This should not be an option to be accepted or rejected at will by a potentially duplicitous individual. This way we would have a record of a commander in chief calling certain countries, well, you know what, or making promises to foreign countries to suspend sanctions imposed by Congress.There would be no dispute. And no doubt about who slipped classified information to Russian visitors in the Oval Office. And never again would questions arise about an international summit without an accurate American interpreter and recording of the discussion. Lets see this new Congress put some teeth into some real security measures that will protect our country and bring truth to the table.Janet Mines KringsJersey CityAdvertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Adeel HassanCaleb Hanna was a child when Barack Obama won the White House and, like many African-Americans, he recalled his excitement at seeing someone who looks like me become president.But Mr. Hanna, now 19, soured on Mr. Obamas policies. This month, he began his term in office in the West Virginia House of Delegates as a Republican, becoming one of the partys youngest black legislators in the country.(The youngest Democratic state legislator is Kalan Haywood of Wisconsin, who is also 19 and black.)Today I was surrounded by friends and family to be sworn into the WV House! I look forward to serving the great people of District 44! ???? pic.twitter.com/aOLKxXDD9cMr. Hanna grew up not only in a state that is overwhelmingly white, but in a white family. He was adopted as a child, and his father, mother, four sisters and brother, who are all white, joined him at his swearing-in ceremony last month. Racial differences have hardly registered in his short life, Mr. Hanna said.During Mr. Obamas first term in Washington, his father lost his job as a coal miner, and Mr. Hanna blamed the Obama administrations environmental policies. Once I learned more about his politics and how they were affecting our community, my attitude changed, he said. By 2012, I was definitely a Mitt Romney fan.By then, he had also resolved to run for delegate, to be a more forceful advocate for the states 44th district. He sums up his platform as God, guns and babies.At Richwood High School  where almost all the students were white  he had served as class president for three years and as president of the student body in his final year.Flooding severely damaged the school after his sophomore year, giving him his first taste of political action as the community debated how to rebuild. As a senior, Mr. Hanna began his campaign to unseat an incumbent Democrat, Dana Lynch, in the statehouse.After school and on weekends, he knocked on hundreds of doors in an attempt to reach every registered Republican in his district, which covers one full county and parts of three others. He won his partys primary by 45 percentage points in May.In the beginning, I knew the odds were against him, said Andrew Gilson, who taught Mr. Hanna in Advanced Placement government class. Mr. Gilson assumed that his student was running mainly to gain experience for later in his career.But Mr. Gilsons opinion changed after Mr. Hannas landslide victory in the primary. Well, maybe hes got a shot here, he recalled thinking. Things were so fickle and fluid at the moment in politics, and even nationally.Mr. Hanna then toppled Mr. Lynch in the general election in November, winning by 25 percentage points. It was kind of a surprise, Mr. Gilson said, pointing out that the rural district is predominantly older, white and conservative. Voters are mostly focused on the economy, he said, while age and race are marginal issues.Still, two weeks before voting, Mr. Hanna said, the Ku Klux Klan left small plastic bags filled with racist fliers and weighted with birdseed on the lawns of a couple of dozen homes in the district, some of which had signs supporting his bid.I dont think it was a coincidence, said Mr. Hanna, who contacted the sheriff about the bags. I was surprised, of course. As a society, I thought we were past all these issues.The states population is 94 percent white and four percent black, according to the Census Bureau.While fulfilling his official duties, Mr. Hanna will remain enrolled at West Virginia State University, a historically black institution with about 3,600 students that is now majority white. The campus, where he lives in a dorm, is conveniently located near Charleston, the state capital, but even so, he will be taking his courses online during the legislative session.His legislative focus will be on education. He wants to create an elective course that introduces technical education in middle schools. There are a lot of good-paying, high-skill jobs out there that dont require a four-year degree, said Mr. Hanna, an economics major. We need to focus more on teaching kids about the opportunities in those fields.Recently, he joined a group seeking to divert money from the states surplus to help President Trump build a wall along the nations southern border.But he said he also recognized a need to work together with Democrats in the state.Its the only way to make effective policy, he said. Its like pulling on a piece of taffy. They pull from one side of the table and you pull on the other side.Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated when Caleb Hanna was elected. He was elected in November, not this month; he began his term in January.Follow Adeel Hassan on Twitter @adeelnyt.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byAbout 800,000 federal employees, and the citizens who depend on them, are being hurt for an empty political stunt.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.For a sense of the true cost of his government shutdown, now deep into its second week, President Trump should spend less time rage-tweeting and venting his spleen in cabinet meetings about Democrats refusal to throw money away on his wasteful border wall and more time perusing the #shutdownstories making the rounds.With even a quick peek beyond his bubble, the president could learn much about the legions of government employees and contractors who spent the holiday season agonizing over how to cover their next mortgage payment or electric bill or trip to the grocery store if this political charade drags on much longer.Lets be clear: This fight is not about security. Contrary to Mr. Trumps claims, there is no flood of savage foreigners pouring across the border. Even so, reasonable Democrats and Republicans acknowledge a need for some mix of a bigger staff, better technology and, yes, fencing  as well as humane and sensible immigration and asylum policies. Achieving all of that has proved a tall order even for competent administrations. But its why Congress, on a bipartisan basis, has already been allocating more money for border security  although the administration has spent less than 10 percent of what Congress has allocated in the past year.To avoid the complex, hard work that has traditionally gone with his job, Mr. Trump has instead manufactured a political impasse over a symbol, a wall, that even his new acting chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, back when he was a congressman, derided as an easy thing to sell politically that doesnt really solve the problem. John Kelly, Mr. Trumps departing chief of staff, told The Los Angeles Times that the administration long ago abandoned the idea of a concrete wall as irrelevant to the real needs of border security  drawing a heated contradiction from the president on Twitter.If Mr. Trump would take the time to check in with whats happening in the real world, he might read about the divorced Army veteran whod worked three jobs to survive before getting hired as a paralegal at the Federal Trade Commission  and who now has no idea if hell make the rent. He could hear from the single mother who says that shell have enough for rent  but not for food. He might be moved by the wife of a corrections officer wondering how her family will handle their mortgage, day care and car payments while her husband is working without pay. Or by the disabled Air Force vet who, having waited more than a year for service-connected surgery, cannot get final approval for her procedure until the shutdown ends.An estimated 800,000 federal workers have had their lives upended by this latest presidential temper tantrum. Some 420,000 of those, deemed essential personnel, are working without pay. This includes upward of 41,000 law enforcement officials, 54,000 Border Patrol agents and 53,000 Transportation Security Administration workers. (If you flew this holiday season, it was only thanks to these unpaid women and men.) Another 380,000 workers have been furloughed, including 28,800 employees of the Forest Service, 16,000 in the National Park Service and 16,700 at NASA. The longer the stoppage continues, the more people will feel the squeeze. Already, the Small Business Administration has been shut down, delaying the processing of loans. A growing number of national parks, museums and historic sites will need to close, disrupting tourism for the sites and for surrounding businesses. At some of the parks kept open during the holidays, even as many rangers and other support staff members were furloughed, there were reports of trash piling up, toilets overflowing with human waste and episodes of vandalism. Routine screenings by the Food and Drug Administration are being put on hold, and the Federal Communications Commission is set to halt most of its operations on Thursday. The situation on Indian lands is about to get dire. The list goes on and on.For the workers directly affected, among those facing the greatest economic uncertainty are contractors, who make up more than 40 percent of the government work force. This includes not only white-collar positions, but also thousands of blue-collar jobs, such as janitors and security guards. Unlike regular government employees, many contractors may not be compensated for lost time. They could simply lose the income.Even for regular, non-contract employees, who have eventually been granted back pay after past shutdowns and can reasonably expect the same this time, the grinding anxiety and financial costs of scraping by in the meantime mount with each passing day. Many of these workers live paycheck to paycheck, with little wiggle room. Some of their creditors are more understanding than others, and even one missed payment can carry heavy consequences.Last Thursday, the Office of Personnel Management tweeted a link to sample letters that workers could use in negotiating payment plans with creditors. This is not a new practice; similar templates were sent during the 2015 shutdown. The letters nonetheless earned much mockery on social media  especially the section suggesting that workers ask their landlords about trading services to perform maintenance (e.g. painting, carpentry work) in exchange for partial rent payments. After suffering a Twitter beat-down, O.P.M. removed the offending passage and issued a statement that it was part of a legacy document from 2013 that had been posted in error.No matter: On the same day that federal workers were being urged to try their hands at a barter economy, Mr. Trump was busy firing off a series of rabid, finger-pointing, wall-related tweets, including one about how a wall deal had been thwarted not only by Democrat obstruction but also by uppity federal judges.In one characteristically empathetic post, Mr. Trump sneered that most of the people not getting paid are Democrats. While this divisive, evidence-free claim tells you everything you need to know about this presidents hyperpolitical approach to his role, it most likely failed to impress the hundreds of thousands of families across the political spectrum who are suffering as a direct result of Mr. Trumps grandstanding.For pure lack of class, however, nothing topped the presidents tweets of Saturday, blaming Democrats opposition to his wall for the tragic death of two migrant children who had been apprehended by the Border Patrol and put into custody.As if all this werent bad enough, on Friday, Mr. Trump issued an executive order freezing pay for the governments civilian work force in 2019  around two million people. The order can be, and is expected to be, overridden by Congress once the budget impasse is resolved. So, practically speaking, Mr. Trumps move does little more than further fuel tensions.Mr. Trump has claimed  without evidence, naturally  that many federal workers have urged him to stay out until you get the funding for the wall. This seems unlikely considering that a recent poll by Reuters/Ipsos found that only a quarter of all Americans support the shutdown. Only 35 percent said they favored including money for the wall in a spending bill.This is, to put it mildly, not a broadly popular policy point on which the president is holding the nation hostage.Not that Mr. Trump seems much interested in either the public will or the public good. For him, this shutdown is a self-declared point of pride  a gaudy display of his boldness, his manliness and his political steadfastness. After all his bluff and bluster, if the president backed down now, he would incur the wrath and ridicule of hard-right pundits like Rush Limbaugh and Ann Coulter, who seem to call the shots in this White House, as well as die-hard supporters who still think a concrete wall  or at least some artistically designed steel slats  will Make America Great Again. During a Wednesday cabinet meeting, just hours before sitting down with congressional leaders, Mr. Trump doubled down on his intransigence, rejecting a compromise proposal for $2.5 billion in wall funding that his vice president, Mike Pence, had floated to Democrats. This is the second time Mr. Trump has torpedoed a negotiation attempt by Mr. Pence, raising the question of why the vice president even bothers. Mr. Trump accused Democrats of playing politics with an eye on 2020, even as he re-upped his false claim that former President Barack Obama has a high wall around his compound in Washington, D.C. Resolving the impasse, he said, could be a long time, or it could be quickly.But there is likely to be a limit to how much Mr. Trump can make Americans suffer for an empty political gesture. The realities of a divided government may provide him with an opportunity  or an excuse  for a fresh start. The new Democratic House is set to vote Thursday on a spending plan to end the shutdown without more wall money, leading to the kind of intense negotiations that he has not faced in two years of single-party control of Congress.If theres a minimum of grandstanding on everyones part, Mr. Trump might get a lesson in how to make a deal.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe outlines of a potential trade deal with China suggest President Trump once again is prioritizing superficial gains over Americas long-term economic interests.By The Editorial BoardIts easy to sell soybeans to China. The Chinese are voracious consumers of the worlds raw materials. Until 2018, shiploads of soybeans from the American Midwest streamed to the processing plants that dot the Chinese coast. So there is no reason to applaud the news that the Chinese government has offered to guarantee large purchases of American soybeans as part of a potential trade deal with the United States that the Trump administration is pushing to complete by late March or early April. Instead, it is a worrying sign that the administration may settle for an ephemeral victory at the expense of Americas long-term economic interests.President Trump, by imposing tariffs on Chinese imports, created an opportunity to improve Americas economic relationship with China. It is a chance that may not come again. The American economy is strong, while the Chinese economy is faltering. China still needs American technologies. And despite Mr. Trumps distaste for multilateralism, much of the rest of the world shares his concerns about Chinas economic policies and trade practices.His decision to go it alone, rather than making common cause with longstanding allies, was ill advised, and his tit-for-tat trade war has caused significant pain for many Americans. Farmers and other American exporters lost access to an important market; consumers are paying higher prices on a wide range of goods.But Mr. Trump was right to argue that China has engaged in unfair competition. The question is whether he can win significant concessions.The proper measure of any deal is whether it achieves Mr. Trumps stated purpose in starting this trade war: persuading China to curb its use of state subsidies, regulations and various kinds of informal interference that limit the ability of American companies to sell goods and services in China, and help Chinese companies sell goods in the United States. Measured as a share of Chinese gross domestic product, imports of American manufactured products have fallen by more than half since 2000, according to calculations by Brad Setser of the Council on Foreign Relations. One reason is that China aggressively subsidizes the creation of homegrown alternatives. To take a noteworthy example, a government-owned company, the Commercial Aircraft Corporation of China, is developing a single-aisle passenger jet, the C919. The airplane is intended to reduce Chinas spending on Boeing 737s  and to create a new rival for Boeing in the global market.Chinas lax enforcement of its environmental and labor laws also amounts to a significant subsidy for Chinese manufacturing, and an inducement to relocate American jobs to China.Robert Lighthizer, Mr. Trumps lead trade negotiator, has said the administration expects to make progress on these issues. But the United States has focused its demands on making it easier for American companies to operate in China, including protections for intellectual property and more leeway for foreign financial firms. China has accelerated work on a foreign investment law that would codify some of those changes, including a ban on the practice of requiring foreign companies to share proprietary technologies with the Chinese.American corporate expansion in China would benefit shareholders and executives. But it would not create factory jobs for American workers, Mr. Trumps stated goal.Whats more, any promises the administration secures from China require an effective enforcement mechanism. The United States has failed in past efforts to hold China to its commitments through the World Trade Organization and through bilateral talks.The United States also is seeking an enforceable agreement to prevent exchange rate manipulation. China accelerated its development by saving rather than spending much of what it earned from exports to the United States. This suppressed the value of its currency, making its exports relatively cheap and American imports relatively expensive. The failure of previous administrations to hold China to account on this front has passed beyond remedy, and China is no longer engaged in currency manipulation, at least as defined under American law. But a framework to monitor and address manipulation could deter future shenanigans. And other countries continue to engage in currency manipulation at the expense of the United States, so an effective deal with China could serve as a constructive precedent.The looming risk, however, is that Mr. Trump will accept a deal that allows him to claim a superficial triumph without forcing China to make enduring changes. In particular, the United States should reject any Chinese offer to guarantee large-scale purchases of American agricultural products like soybeans or energy products like liquid natural gas  indeed, guaranteed purchases of any kind.Such deals could serve Mr. Trumps desire to reduce Americas annual trade deficit with China. But the achievement would be purely cosmetic. The overall balance of Americas imports and exports is important; the balance with any particular country is not.Past administrations have rejected similar offers from China because they run counter to Americas longstanding goal of reducing the Chinese governments heavy-handed management of the countrys economy. They would also come at the expense of Americas allies. If China buys more soybeans from North Dakota, it would buy fewer from Brazil. An international consensus that Chinas trade policies are problematic has increased pressure on China to make meaningful concessions. Maintaining a unified front would help to ensure that China honors its commitments. Grabbing market share is unlikely to further that objective.Mr. Lighthizer has argued, correctly, that any agreement with China is a step in a long-term process. The United States should not strike a deal that undermines those long-term goals in exchange for ephemeral gains.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Katie RogersSHANNON, Ireland  When it came time to stretch his legs during a refueling stop in Ireland on his recent Europe trip, Vice President Mike Pence left his cabin suite at the front of Air Force Two dressed in a flight jacket with the vice-presidential seal.As he disembarked to stroll a few laps around the airport terminal like a Midwestern mall walker, his wife, Karen, made a beeline to an assortment of souvenirs in the duty-free shop.Back across the Atlantic, President Trump, Mr. Pences boss, was in the midst of firing off his early morning tweets, including one addressed to the Senate Intelligence Committee denying, once again, that there was any collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia. The vice president, for his part, seemed worlds away, enjoying a brief stop with the second lady as if they were tourists on a long-planned vacation.Appearing together in Washington, Mr. Trump, a former reality show mogul, and Mr. Pence, an evangelical Christian, are a strikingly odd couple, with the vice president usually seen as a meek helpmate casting a ciphers gaze in the presidents direction. But with at least 10 diplomatic trips to six continents under his belt, Mr. Pence appears to have mastered the art of stepping out of Mr. Trumps shadow on his own terms. He avoids taking any perilous steps into the presidents limelight by staying relentlessly on message, whatever the diplomatic cost.Their contrasting styles will be on display again this week. On Wednesday, Mr. Trump will be engaging in a high-stakes, if not theatrical, summit meeting in Vietnam with Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader and his occasional pen pal. That meeting comes with the added drama of Mr. Trumps former fixer testifying to Congress on the same day.With Mr. Trump in the spotlight, Mr. Pence will be left to test his international clout against a conflict that turned deadly over recent attempts to deliver humanitarian aid to Venezuela, a country reeling from a collapsed economy and violent political turmoil. On Monday, Mr. Pence is scheduled to visit Bogot, Colombia, to reinforce the Trump administrations demands that Nicols Maduro, the Venezuelan president, step down to clear the way for Juan Guaid, the opposition leader who has the support of the White House.According to a senior administration official, Mr. Pence is prepared to meet with Mr. Guaid and plans to announce concrete steps to put pressure on Mr. Maduros government. That could include fleshing out a new round of punishing economic sanctions, a move several administration officials hinted at over the weekend.This urgent situation in Latin America will present a thornier challenge to the vice president than his four-day trip this month to Poland and Germany, where he was sent to deliver earnest, eloquent entreaties in support of Israel and accuse Iran of trying to perpetrate another Holocaust.Despite the sharp language, it was a comparatively low-stakes trip. On the first leg, Mr. Pence dined on cod and posed for group pictures at an administration-organized summit meeting, which was ostensibly about Middle East peace but was geared heavily toward isolating Iran. He took it in stride when Mike Pompeo, the secretary of state, was accidentally identified as the vice president during a luncheon.But Mr. Pence demonstrated little interest in other delicate relationships at play when he demanded that European allies exit the nuclear accord with Iran negotiated by the Obama administration and accused them of undermining American-led sanctions. Mr. Pences aggressive approach infuriated those who watched it happen, including Mr. Pompeo, the administrations top diplomat.He stayed relentlessly on message even while fielding questions about his visit to the Auschwitz concentration camp from reporters aboard Air Force Two.We just felt waves of emotion, Mr. Pence said about his time there, allowing only a peek into his personal experience of the trip, which included laying roses in a gas chamber and reading from scripture. He then veered back into a screed against Iran, accusing the government of harboring the same vile, anti-Semitic hatred that animated the Nazis in Europe, and calling on freedom loving people to condemn the Iranian government.Mr. Pences demand that the allies leave the nuclear accord was all but ignored by the crowd at his next stop, the Munich Security Conference. Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, publicly stuck with Iran and criticized the Trump administration in a speech moments before Mr. Pence took the stage to deliver his own.One of the only indicators that Mr. Pence noticed the chilly European reception came when he mentioned Mr. Trump.I bring greetings from the 45th president of the United States of America: President Donald Trump, Mr. Pence said. The reference that tends to draw raucous applause at Make America Great Again rallies just drew silence in Munich.The vice presidents allies say it is not his job to worry about how he might be judged for the message he is delivering on the world stage  even if it creates a mess diplomats need to clean up.I dont think it was as much about how he was received, Marc Short, Mr. Pences incoming chief of staff, said. He was effective in getting his message across.This relatively low-key approach makes for a kind of comfortable stability as well as a whiff of rigidity on Mr. Pences trips.Mr. Pence does not drink  he gave it up in the past, Mr. Short said, for lots of reasons, so no alcohol is served onboard Air Force Two. Mr. Pence opts for coffee as he revises and tweaks his prepared remarks at all hours. Any reporters or West Wing staff members along for the ride have to make do.When they are in different places, according to aides, Mr. Pence and the president speak several times a day. Their conversations tend to remain private even among the vice presidents closest advisers.You will never ever hear him talk about his conversations, his advice, their discussions, ever, said Marc Lotter, Mr. Pences former spokesman. The only thing we would hear is, The president wants us to do this.This deferential style is one Mr. Pence has told people he admired in George Bush when he was Ronald Reagans vice president. Mr. Bush was so humble that he famously refused to let a helicopter deposit him on the South Lawn after Mr. Reagan was shot in a 1981 assassination attempt. Only the president lands on the South Lawn, Mr. Bush remarked at the time.And so, even on Mr. Pences European trip, Mr. Trumps influence could hardly be missed. His in-flight entourage contained several Trump loyalists, including the presidents daughter Ivanka and her husband, Jared Kushner, the architect of the administrations nascent Middle East peace plan, who traveled alongside Mr. Pence for most of his stops.Keith Kellogg, a retired lieutenant general well liked by Mr. Trump, found his way aboard as Mr. Pences national security adviser. He landed in Pence World last year, after a previous stint as the presidents acting national security adviser  a role he assumed after Michael T. Flynn was dismissed for misinforming Mr. Pence about the nature of a conversation with Russias ambassador to the United States.Pence loyalists were also given a seat  and access to the P.A. system. Tom Rose, a former publisher of The Jerusalem Post and conservative talk show host turned senior adviser to the vice president, got on it after Mr. Pence visited Auschwitz.Of all the friends we have, two truly stand above them all, Mr. Rose said. President Donald Trump and my beloved friend, a true Lion of Judah, Vice President Mike Pence.Travelers aboard broke into applause, and the plane was cleared for takeoff.Mr. Pences mission on Monday is to put further pressure on Mr. Maduro, an embattled leader whose government the Trump administration has declared an ideological adversary of the United States. The decision to send a vice president into a volatile political situation in Latin America does not come without risky precedent: In 1958, Richard M. Nixons motorcade was attacked when Mr. Nixon, then the vice president, toured Caracas, Venezuela.Still, for Mr. Pence, Latin America is well-trodden territory: It is his fifth trip there as vice president. He has visited often enough to draw Mr. Maduros attention: Last summer, Mr. Maduro lashed out at Mr. Pence, calling him sick and obsessive and a poisonous viper when he learned the vice president was visiting the region.The insult will most likely not deter Mr. Pence from delivering the latest iteration of Mr. Trumps message. As Mr. Short put it, he gives a terrific speech.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byGood Monday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today._____________________ The longest government shutdown in history inflicted severe political damage on President Trump, dragging down his poll numbers and stirring concern about his ability to navigate a divided government. He now appears without a plan for mounting a strong campaign in 2020. With the shutdown over for now, Congress will hit reset this week, showcasing a Democratic agenda in the House that was overshadowed by the struggle to reopen the government. In both chambers, lawmakers have teed up a high-impact lineup of hearings. As income tax filing season opens, a sweeping tax code overhaul and the lingering effects of the shutdown could squeeze taxpayers refund checks  and delay them, too. While other Democrats have focused on sweeping themes of unity or change, Elizabeth Warren is betting that her passion for policy minutiae  she calls it nerding out  will set her apart from the crowd. Howard Schultz, the former chief executive of Starbucks and a self-described lifelong Democrat, is preparing to run for president as an independent. He has already begun the groundwork required to be on the ballot in all 50 states. Mr. Trump believed that the Russia thing would end in the early days of the administration after he fired the national security adviser, Michael T. Flynn, according to an account in a new memoir by Chris Christie. The Trump administration has lifted sanctions against the business empire of Oleg V. Deripaska, one of Russias most influential oligarchs, despite congressional Democrats efforts to block the move. As a possible 2020 presidential hopeful, Mayor Bill de Blasio of New York has yet to gain much traction among strategists, political operatives and influential Democrats. But thats not for lack of trying. Jared Kushner agreed to take the lead when the president asked him to find a way to end the monthlong shutdown. It was a negotiation he wasnt prepared for. Marco Rubio has made himself a virtual secretary of state for Latin America, driving administration strategy from the Senate floor. Perhaps no other individual outside Venezuela has been more critical in challenging President Nicols Maduro._____________________Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Is there anything you think were missing? Anything you want to see more of? Wed love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byWhite House MemoBy Michael Tackett and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON  Richard M. Nixon once said, People react to fear, not love; they dont teach that in Sunday school, but its true.No president since has deployed fear quite like Donald J. Trump. Whether it is the prospect of a crime wave at the border with Mexico or nuclear war with North Korea, President Trump has persuaded his supporters that there is plenty to fear beyond fear itself.In an interview as a presidential candidate in 2016 with Bob Woodward and Robert Costa of The Washington Post, Mr. Trump said, Real power is  I dont even want to use the word  fear.As president, he initially tried to intimidate some of the nations strongest allies, including Canada, Mexico, Britain, France and Germany, in trade talks. He demanded political loyalty from Republicans in Congress and drove several who bucked him from office, notably Senators Bob Corker and Jeff Flake. But as his presidency enters its third year, a less convenient truth is emerging: Few outside the Republican Party are afraid of him, and they may be less intimidated after the disastrous government shutdown.But Mr. Trump has shown little inclination to modulate his style, and that carries risks. He could well face a challenge for the Republican nomination in 2020, and congressional Republicans from swing states could begin to distance themselves from him.One of the clearest signals came last week when Republicans, backing an amendment offered by Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, opposed the presidents call for withdrawal of United States military forces from Syria and Afghanistan as part of a Middle East policy bill. Only three Republicans voted against it.I believe the threats remain, Mr. McConnell said in a speech last week. ISIS and Al Qaeda have yet to be defeated, and American national security interests require continued commitment to our mission there.Mr. McConnell also counseled the president last week against declaring a national emergency to get a wall built on the southwestern border, even as Mr. Trump emphasized that he was reserving that option.Even his supporters say the president, who uses the word tough as a favored expression of admiration, has not made a measurably effective transition from the world of private business to public office.It is a common trait among those who ran privately held corporations, said Ari Fleischer, who served as White House press secretary for George W. Bush and frequently defends Mr. Trump. Their way is the only way. Their will gets it done. Theyve been successful against all odds, built something huge, and when they declare it so they expect everybody around them to make it so. Thats Donald Trumps behavior, and that doesnt always work in politics or in government.Politicians dont operate the way he does, Mr. Fleischer said. Frankly, its put him at risk and put the Republican Party at risk, but it also allows him to take on China and do something of tremendous consequences that no politician would ever do. If Trump is successful, this will be a better country and a better world for it.Yet there is little evidence that President Xi Jinping of China, or any other foreign leader, is cowed.And certainly not Speaker Nancy Pelosi. The president initially said he felt comfortable negotiating with Ms. Pelosi, but in interviews aired on Sunday, he sharpened his attacks on her and said her obstinacy on the border wall was damaging the country.Mr. Trump has found that his lack of experience in politics and diplomacy, which require policy knowledge, team building and nuanced negotiating ability, has left him at a decided disadvantage despite his boasts about his deal-making prowess.Hes surrounded in these standoffs by people who have all those boxes checked, said Timothy OBrien, the author of TrumpNation: The Art of Being the Donald. Nancy Pelosi has been doing this for quite a while, Putin has been doing this for a quite a while, Xi has been doing this quite a while. Theyve all been running circles around him.The next question is when does he really realize that for what it is, and I think the answer for that is he never will, Mr. OBrien said, because it would admit either defeat or acknowledgment of his inadequacies, and he will just never do that.The government shutdown is just the latest and highest-profile example of Mr. Trump sounding assertive but gaining little, at least so far. American allies, diplomats said, have more a sense of resignation than fear in dealing with him. The list of threats from Mr. Trump is long, but the number of times he has followed through is exceedingly short.He is playing a role, and the role, much like on The Apprentice, was of the strong, able character, but its a role, said David Axelrod, a senior adviser to President Barack Obama. Every foreign leader and every practicing politician has taken a measure of him and understands the basics, that he responds to strength and theres not a lot behind the facade.In recent months, Mr. Trump has had tense conversations with, among others, Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain and President Emmanuel Macron of France, who has felt trolled by Mr. Trump over the state of the French economy, people familiar with the conversations said.The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, has indicated to people that she does not consider Mr. Trump a serious person to talk with. His get-tough, tariff-driven approach to bringing China to heel has had mixed results at best, hurting some American industries and sending markets plunging. Even on one of the most prominent issues that has provoked his threats  the renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement with Canada and Mexico  Mr. Trump did not walk away with anything close to a windfall.Instead, most trade experts said the revised trade accord included modest substantive changes that will benefit the United States, and others said the biggest difference may be symbolic: a change in the name, to the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement. Congress has yet to vote on that pact.But there is one place where Mr. Trumps fear tactics have been an unqualified success: among Republicans. Mr. Trump has held an iron grip on the Republican base, making it difficult for fellow party members, who also rely on those core voters, to oppose him.There is no constituency within a party that is so dominated by one individual that is charting a course with the opposition unless you want to be a former lawmaker, said Josh Holmes, a Republican strategist who is close to Mr. McConnell.Other presidents have held out the fear of recrimination from the Oval Office to get their way, but they did not use Mr. Trumps blunt instruments alone.Lyndon B. Johnson was known for his lean-in, hardball persuasion, but unlike Mr. Trump, Johnson entered a negotiation with an idea of what his opponents wanted and found a way to get it for them, in exchange for getting what he wanted. Even Nixon later acknowledged that he did not really believe fear was a successful prime motivator.Nixon said that, but he didnt believe it and he didnt practice it, said Michael Beschloss, a presidential historian and author of the recent best seller Presidents of War. He actually spent decades building relationships in Washington, with his party leaders, with Democrats, and around the world. So yes, there were certainly elements of fear in all those relationships, but he knew you needed both the carrot and the stick.Mr. Trump, given his background as a deal-making real estate developer with close relationships with politicians, might have been expected to do the same in Washington. But among Democrats, he has done the opposite.Its almost as if he only has one tool in his toolbox, Mr. Beschloss said.Follow Michael Tackett and Maggie Haberman on Twitter: @tackettdc and @maggieNYT.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBest of Late NightBy Giovanni RussonelloWelcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous nights highlights that lets you sleep  and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If youre interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.When President Trump fired James Comey in 2017, the F.B.I. was spooked enough that it opened an investigation to determine if the president was working on behalf of the Russian government, The New York Times reported on Friday. Late-night hosts have been wondering aloud about the same question for years.Stephen Colbert, for one, said on Monday that he doesnt know what all the fuss was about this weekend. He introduced a new mock game show evaluating the president, called Evil or Stupid?The New York Times revealed that after Donald Trump fired James Comey in 2017, the F.B.I. opened an inquiry into whether Trump was secretly working on behalf of Russia. I think thats ridiculous: Theres nothing secret about it.  STEPHEN COLBERTThis morning, Trump flat-out told reporters, quote, I never worked for Russia. You know what that means: Hes doing it for free. Its possible hes a traitor and a bad negotiator.  JAMES CORDENPresident Trump told reporters today that he has never worked for Russia. Cause you know what they say: It aint work if you love what you do!  SETH MEYERSJimmy Fallon joked that Trump might not have the professional skills to work for Vladimir Putin anyway.It came out that back in 2017, the F.B.I. started investigating whether Trump was secretly working for Russia. When asked if Trump ever worked for him, Vladimir Putin said, [impersonating Putin] No, hes more like unpaid intern.  JIMMY FALLONAs the historically long government shutdown stretches on, late-night hosts continue to keep up a drumbeat of criticism. James Corden on Monday criticized Trump, saying his conduct during the shutdown wasnt out of characterEight hundred thousand Americans are now working without getting paid. So, as promised, Trump really is running the country like one of his businesses.  JAMES CORDENOver the weekend, I saw that Washington, D.C., was hit with a big storm and got a foot of snow. The storm showed up and was like, Wait, how is everything already shut down? Thats my job.  JIMMY FALLONAccording to new research, 60 percent of Americans say they plan to get in shape in 2019. And according to newer research, its now just 10 percent.  SETH MEYERSI dont know if you guys know this, but its only 659 days until the 2020 election. Thats like tomorrow, guys.  TREVOR NOAHJimmy Kimmel is doing his part to keep federal employees working during the government shutdown.Colbert has a romantic message for MacKenzie Bezos, soon-to-be ex-wife of Amazons founder, Jeff Bezos.On Tuesdays Late Show, Senator Kirsten Gillibrand is expected to announce her first official steps toward a presidential run, according to CBS News. The Times Late-Night Comedy Committee will be here to tell you about it.Conan OBrien will be back after a monthslong hiatus next week, with a shorter, thoroughly revamped show. Heres what he said about whats in store.Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight:The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right NowThe 100 Best Movies on Netflix Right NowThe 25 Best Films of the 21st CenturyAdvertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Maggie AstorIn the words of her detractors during the 2016 presidential race, Hillary Clinton was abrasive and shrill. She was aloof. She was unlikable.Its not a coincidence that some of these adjectives are now bubbling up in discussions of Senators Elizabeth Warren, Kirsten Gillibrand and Kamala Harris as they campaign for the 2020 Democratic nomination.Few Americans acknowledge they would hesitate to vote for a woman for president  but they dont have to, according to researchers and experts on politics and women and extensive research on double standards in campaigns. Reluctance to support female candidates is apparent in the language that voters frequently use to describe men and women running for office; in the qualities that voters say they seek; and in the perceived flaws that voters say they are willing or unwilling to overlook in candidates.[Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.]The influence and impact of these stereotypes and double standards are about to play out in uncharted territory: a presidential race featuring six women running for the Democratic nomination, all vying to compete against President Trump, who has a history of making sexist comments.For 20 years, weve heard participants in our focus groups say they would vote for a woman, just not that woman, said Amanda Hunter, research and communications director at the Barbara Lee Family Foundation, which supports women in politics. That promise will be put to the test in some cases, because folks may not be able to hide their bias behind that excuse when theres multiple women on the debate stage.Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota is the latest woman to join the 2020 field, kicking off her campaign on Sunday. In the run-up to her announcement, she faced headlines about her well-known reputation in the Senate as a difficult boss. Whether she is held to a different standard than men remains to be seen: Male politicians pressure and berate staff members too, and, like Ms. Klobuchars Senate office, President Trump has had high employee turnover.How much sexism ultimately influences votes is a matter of debate. In general elections, partisanship beats everything else, said Kathleen Dolan, a political scientist at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee, whose research shows that most voters stick with their partys candidate regardless of gender.But there has been little comparable research on primaries, where partisanship isnt in the equation. And the Democrats will have a wide-open presidential primary in 2020 with multiple leading female candidates.What is not a matter of debate is the array of ways that sexism can manifest on the campaign trail, affecting not only how voters perceive candidates but how candidates present themselves to voters.The very first question of Ms. Gillibrands campaign was about her likability. A lot of people see you as pretty likable, a reporter told her. Did she consider that a selling point?Ms. Warrens evaluation arrived with similar speed, in a Politico article that asked how she could avoid a Clinton redux  written off as too unlikable before her campaign gets off the ground.One of the most amorphous qualities candidates are judged on, likability is also deeply influenced by gender bias, researchers say. Voters look for it in men, too  consider the who would you rather have a beer with question in campaigns  but only in women, research shows, do they consider it nonnegotiable.We know that voters will not support a woman that they do not like, even if they believe that she is qualified, Ms. Hunter said. But they will vote for a man that they do not like if they believe he is qualified.In 2016, for instance, both Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Trump had poor favorability ratings; among voters who said they viewed both candidates negatively, Mr. Trump won by roughly 20 percentage points.Women also tend to be viewed as unlikable based on their ambition. Harvard researchers found in 2010 that voters regarded power-seeking women with contempt and anger, but saw power-seeking men as stronger and more competent. There is often some implication of unscrupulousness in descriptions of female candidates as ambitious  an adjective that could apply to any person running for president but is rarely used to disparage men. Within 24 hours of Ms. Harriss campaign kickoff, some critics were bringing up her onetime relationship with a powerful California politician, Willie Brown  a common tactic faced by women that sexualizes them and reduces their successes to a relationship with a man.And if a narrative of unlikability takes hold, it can influence voters without their even realizing it.I actually heard so often that people didnt like her and she was unlikable that I started to think, I dont know if I really like her so much, Heather Pasqualino Weirich, a Democrat from Phoenixville, Pa., said of Mrs. Clinton, whom she later supported. I realized I had no reason why I didnt like her.The qualities voters tend to expect from politicians  like strength, toughness and valor  are popularly associated with masculinity. This often means that from the moment a man steps onto the campaign trail, he benefits from a basic assumption that he is qualified to run, while a woman has to work twice as hard to show that shes qualified, Ms. Hunter said.People just start off assuming that you care about the soft issues, you care about hearth and home, and that you cant know anything about finance or military, said former Senator Carol Moseley Braun, who ran for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2004.For many years, female candidates tried to adopt the characteristics voters wanted to see  to act, stereotypically speaking, like men. This worked for some but also brought pitfalls. For one thing, it did not challenge the premise that masculinity is better suited for leadership. It also opened women up to a familiar double standard: A man who speaks authoritatively might be confident or opinionated, while a woman who does the same is arrogant or lecturing. Most pressingly, it created a backlash among some voters who saw women acting like men and deemed them inauthentic.Nichole M. Bauer, an assistant professor of political communication at Louisiana State University, found that when women played up stereotypically masculine qualities, voters  regardless of party  rated them better in terms of leadership ability, but voters in the opposing party rated them significantly lower in terms of likability. There was no similar backlash to male candidates who defied gender stereotypes.Dr. Bauer said that in all her research, she had found no way for women to win the support of voters in the opposing party. Its a basic psychological phenomenon, she said: If a Republican starts out disliking a Democratic woman, or vice versa, theyll use gender stereotypes about women to maintain that perceived negative relationship no matter what the woman does.Perhaps the most obvious way female candidates are judged differently is on their appearance: not only how attractive they are and how they dress, researchers say, but also their facial expressions, their body language and their voice. Accused in 2015 of shouting about gun violence, Mrs. Clinton responded: First of all, Im not shouting. Its just when women talk, some people think were shouting.Women are conscious that small elements of how they present themselves are subject to scrutiny. Representative Madeleine Dean  one of four Democratic women elected to the House last year from Pennsylvania, whose congressional delegation was previously all-male  said an aide would stand in the back of the room during her campaign events, holding up a cardboard sign with a smiley face to remind her to shift the serious expression she naturally wore while listening to voters.She was also coached, though I did not take his coaching, not to cross my arms in front of myself because then you look mad, Ms. Dean said.These sorts of criticisms were common in the 2016 campaign, not only against Mrs. Clinton but also against Carly Fiorina, who ran in the Republican primary. Look at that face, Mr. Trump said at one point, openly mocking Ms. Fiorinas appearance. Would anyone vote for that? Can you imagine that, the face of our next president? (Mr. Trump subsequently claimed he had been talking about her persona. Ms. Fiorina, who did not respond to interview requests for this article, said at the time, I think women all over this country heard very clearly what Mr. Trump said.)Because these judgments are so superficial, and their gendered nature so obvious, they draw substantial backlash. But that doesnt mean they stop.The women who run are still going to be, I think, more scrutinized about their appearance, said Debbie Walsh, director of the Center for American Women and Politics at Rutgers University. I would love to think that they wont get the kind of comments that Hillary Clinton got about, Why is she yelling at me? Why doesnt she smile more? Id love to think that thats all gone now, but I dont believe that to be true.History influences what voters see as normal. And for 230 years in the United States, presidential leadership has been male.For many decades, this was a self-sustaining cycle: Female candidates were outside the norm, so they didnt win, so they remained outside the norm. But the history of womens representation at other levels of government shows that the norm can shift.When we take a look at states that have had female governors, when voters see women succeed in executive office, it opens the door for more women in that role because it does literally change the face of leadership, Ms. Hunter, of the Barbara Lee Family Foundation, said.Precisely because women running for president have lacked models for how to do it, what they are left with, Ms. Walsh said, is very prescribed: Wear a little suit, talk about your rsum but dont talk about your personal life, dont talk about your kids because then people are going to ask whos taking care of your kids.In 2018, of course, many female candidates ran unabashedly as themselves, bucking the public images and political messages that women traditionally adhered to in campaigns. Some of them appeared with their young children; others proudly showed off their tattoos; and many talked in personal terms about discrimination and harassment as well as a range of policy issues.The presence of six women in the 2020 race, Ms. Walsh argued, is going to give women who run for office at every level more leeway, and a path to navigate that may be not quite so narrow.Follow Maggie Astor on Twitter: @MaggieAstor.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Kaly SotoWelcome to the weekend. Its Hollywoods biggest. So maybe youll catch up on some movie watching before the Oscars. But theres news you should know also. So take a minute and read some of the stories you may have missed this week.President Trumps efforts have exposed him to accusations of obstruction of justice as Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, finishes his work.____The co-working giants real product isnt office space  its a new kind of corporate culture.____He walked into a store and it changed civil rights. That crumbling store has come to symbolize the struggle to address the nations racial violence.____The crisis over sexuality in the Catholic Church goes beyond abuse. It goes to the heart of the priesthood, into a closet that is trapping thousands of men.[Also read: Vaticans Secret Rules for Catholic Priests Who Have Children.]____The culinary star looks back at her career and the international celebrity  and scrutiny  that came with it.____Held in a refugee camp in Syria, the two female recruits said they regretted joining the Islamic State and asked for a second chance.____Fewer than 1 percent of doctorates in math are awarded to African-Americans. Edray Goins, who earned one of them, found the upper reaches of the math world a challenging place.____He represents the soul of fashion, said Anna Wintour of Vogue, restless, forward-looking and voraciously attentive to our changing culture.[Also read: The Last Designer]____The prolific composer Joe Iconis is fiercely loyal to his friends and fans. His first Broadway musical is the ride theyve all been waiting for.____A colossal painting, once claimed to depict a Confederate victory, has carried an evolving meaning. Now, a spectacular restoration at the Atlanta History Center unravels its complex tale.____Vanity Fair ruled the roost, but its guest list is bloated by corporate sponsorships. And now theres competition from Jay-Z.Follow me on Twitter (kalyTsoto) for more great reads.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning,We start with a look at the Trump administrations Mideast policies, the growing political fight confronting the president, and a teachers strike in Los Angeles today.Senior Pentagon officials are voicing concern that President Trumps national security adviser, John Bolton, could precipitate a conflict with Iran at a time when the U.S. is losing leverage in the Middle East.At Mr. Boltons request, the National Security Council asked the Pentagon last year to offer military options to strike Iran, Defense Department and senior American officials said on Sunday.The background: The request came after Iranian-backed militants fired three mortars or rockets onto the grounds of the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad. Military officials at the time chose not to retaliate. Another angle: Secretary of State Mike Pompeo met with Saudi Arabias crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, today to discuss several issues that have weakened the U.S.-Saudi alliance, including the war in Yemen.News analysis: The void left by Americas growing disengagement in the Middle East is being filled by Russia and Iran, our bureau chief in Beirut, Lebanon, writes.Michael Cohen, President Trumps former lawyer, is scheduled to testify publicly in Congress next month about his work for Mr. Trump. Democratic leaders of House committees warned the president on Sunday against trying to influence witnesses testimony. The Democrats warning capped a busy weekend: The Times learned that the F.B.I. investigated whether the president was secretly working on Russias behalf, and The Washington Post reported that the president tried to hide details of his conversations with President Vladimir Putin. Mr. Trump was asked in an interview on Fox News on Saturday whether he was working for Russia. I think its the most insulting thing Ive ever been asked, he answered. News analysis: Mr. Trump faces the prospect of an all-out political war for survival, our chief White House correspondent writes.Whats next: Confirmation hearings are set to begin on Tuesday for William Barr, Mr. Trumps nominee for attorney general, who has a broad view of presidential power. Democrats have demanded that Mr. Barr protect the special counsels investigation into Russian election interference. Hospitals began complying this month with a federal requirement to post prices for their services, theoretically offering consumers transparency and forcing health care providers into price competition.But the information, posted online in spreadsheets for thousands of procedures, is incomprehensible to most patients. Many hospitals have posted disclaimers warning consumers not to rely on the data.Reaction: To 99 percent of the consuming public, these data will be of limited utility  meaningless, said the president of the Greater New York Hospital Association.A series of daytime killings, some of which were captured on video and shared on social media, has shaken the island, which has long had one of the highest murder rates in the U.S.Twenty-two people have been killed so far this year, making crime another major challenge on an island already hurt by bankruptcy and hurricane devastation.Catch up: Kevin Fret, a musician and social media star, was fatally shot in San Juan last week.While the political battle over migration drags on, thousands of undocumented migrants are granted entry to the U.S. every month while their asylum cases are processed. But there is little federal support for them. An expanding network of churches and other nongovernmental organizations is trying to get migrants fed, housed and possibly reunited with relatives in the U.S. People are working 24 hours a day trying to make this happen, said the leader of a San Diego aid network. Everyone is strapped. Budget impasse sets a record: The partial government shutdown is now the longest in history. We looked at how it has underscored the federal governments connection to everyday life in many parts of the U.S.Los Angeles teachers strike: More than 30,000 public schoolteachers began a walkout today, calling for higher pay, smaller classes and more support staff. The strike in the nations second-largest school system will affect about 500,000 students. Canada-China tensions: A Canadian accused of smuggling drugs was sentenced to death in China today, escalating a diplomatic rift after the arrest of a Chinese tech executive in Vancouver last month.Democrats running in 2020: Julin Castro, the former housing secretary and onetime mayor of San Antonio, plans to campaign in Puerto Rico today after saying he would run for president. He joins a growing field of candidates, including Representative Tulsi Gabbard of Hawaii, who announced her campaign on Friday.Bankruptcy filing for California utility: Pacific Gas and Electric Company, which has been struggling with a financial crisis stemming from the states wildfires, intends to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection by the end of the month, according to a regulatory filing.Asylum for Saudi teen: Rahaf Mohammed Alqunun, 18, who fled what she said was an abusive family in Saudi Arabia, arrived in Toronto, where she was granted asylum by the Canadian government.Black box is found: The cockpit voice recorder of the Lion Air flight that crashed in Indonesia in October has been located, officials announced today. All 189 people on board died.Snapshot: Above, a snowball fight in Washington on Sunday. A winter storm hit parts of the Midwest and moved to the Atlantic coast.Hamilton in Puerto Rico: The hit Broadway musical began a 17-day run in San Juan over the weekend. Its an effort by the shows creator, Lin-Manuel Miranda, to draw attention to the hurricane-ravaged island. N.F.L. playoffs: In the conference championships next Sunday, the Los Angeles Rams will play the New Orleans Saints, and the Kansas City Chiefs will face the New England Patriots. Heres what we learned from this weekends games.Australian Open: Andy Murray lost in what is likely to be his final appearance at the tennis tournament, which began today in Melbourne. Serena Williams is also back.What were watching: This video from UCLA gymnastics. Katelyn Ohashi won perfect marks for this floor routine in a college competition on Saturday, but thats not why the video is burning up the internet, writes our briefings editor, Andrea Kannapell. The compelling factor is her joy. Cook: Start the week with a comforting bowl of Tuscan farro soup.Read: The actor Russell Hornsby spoke to us about The Hate U Give and complex black masculinity.Go: Our critics selection of arts events this week includes a PBS program on Victoria and Alberts royal wedding, and Japanese Breakfast in concert.Listen: To Radioheads Ill Wind, a 2016 track now available on streaming services. The song has fluty sounds and buzzy ones, swallowing the song before prettily fading out,  Jon Pareles writes.Smarter Living: Escaping the frenetic digital world might seem impossible, but Farhad Manjoo, a tech columnist who just joined our Opinion desk, says he manages thanks to meditation. I started with 10 minutes a day, then built up to 15, 20, then 30, he writes. The benefits went from noticeable to remarkable, something he likens to a software upgrade for my brain. (We have a guide.)If youre organizing your external space, too, we have ideas on selling, donating and recycling.On Wall Street, its earnings season.Before your eyes glaze over, heres what that means  and why its more interesting than usual.Were about to see how corporate America did in the past three months.Its the first chance for investors to hear from chief executives since the market went haywire in December. A big reason for that sell-off was concern about the economy and corporate profits.In the preseason, Apple warned that fewer people in China were buying iPhones than it had expected, and American Airlines said it wasnt getting as much revenue from every passenger as it wanted.Such details help gauge the health of the economy, and thats where the trouble can begin. If too many companies warn about problems ahead, investors could see their worst fears confirmed  and stocks could start to fall again.Maybe dont check your 401(k) until this is over.Thats it for this briefing. I leave you with this: Last night, a photo of an egg unseated Kylie Jenners birth announcement as the most-liked Instagram post ever. Just a regular egg.See you next time. ChrisThank youTo Eleanor Stanford for the cultural tips and James K. Williamson for Smarter Living ideas. Mohammed Hadi, our business news director, wrote todays Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S. Were listening to The Daily. Todays episode is about a trip two Times journalists are taking along the 2,000-mile southern border. Heres todays mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Lead-in to Bear or Berra (4 letters). You can find all our puzzles here.  We compiled some of our most surprising and comical corrections from last year.An earlier version of this briefing misstated the given name of President Trump's nominee for attorney general. He is William Barr, not Bob. (So much for that resolution.)Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles aweekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Timess news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byIts the best way to keep an open mind in our pick your side and stay on it era.By David McCrawMr. McCraw is deputy general counsel of The New York Times.My job, when I am doing it right, is to please no one. Im a press lawyer. Im paid by this newspaper to vet stories before publication.Think of me as a storys first and worst reader: doubtful, questioning, blind to subtlety, skeptical of the facts, regularly prodding editors and reporters to do something more or different. And if I have done my job well, many of the subjects of those same stories will be unhappy as well, but for all the reasons we want them to be: We got it right.The basic idea of libel law is simple. A publisher can get sued for making a factual statement that proves to be false and hurts a persons reputation. For those of us charged with helping news organizations avoid libel suits, that means we learn to look at the world through the eyes of the person at the center of any tough story, often the bad guy in the tale.I am all about the villains in many pieces  the doctor who botched the surgery, the insurance company that shafted its customers, the professor who hit on the student, the greedy industrialist who ground up workers to make a fortune. I try to look for the counternarrative that they could (and their lawyers will) build from the same set of facts. Its a counterintuitive form of reading. Its looking for the innocent explanation or the possibility that what appears to all the rest of the world to be nefarious may in fact just be a mistake made in good faith.Its a tricky skill to take into the real world. When the guy at the grocery story with 17 items cuts in front of you in the express line, maybe you dont want to wonder whether he just honestly miscounted (17 can look a lot like 10). Or ponder the possibility that he sincerely thinks he is supposed to be counting food groups, not boxes. Or earnestly gauge the likelihood that he is a devoted father in a rush to get home to a sick and hungry child. Maybe you just want to go with irate and level a I hope you die, sir stare.But for a libel lawyer, a little sympathy for the villain is almost an occupational requirement. And maybe it wouldnt be a bad idea for all of us in the tribalized pick your side and stay on it era we are living in.Most Times stories dont take much of a legal lift, or any at all. But my approach was never more tested than in the 2016 campaign. I had been a Times lawyer for a decade and a half by then. Week after week, I was alternatively in the tank for Hillary Clinton or Donald Trump, whoever happened to be the piata on any given day, doing my part to make certain that our coverage was sound.I have an old-school vision of the First Amendment: that journalists should tell stories straight, that readers can be trusted and that out of that process we as a country will get it right more often than not.Libel lawyers dont serve as the fairness police. If anything, they are more like fact cops. Coverage can be wildly unfair and still be true. And that is what matters to the law. Still, as the campaign ended and the Trump administration took hold, and as much as I continued to cling to a blind faith in the power of facts, it was impossible not to get drawn into the white-hot debate over coverage in a politicized America.It was a debate rippling across our democracy at a time when news operations were facing extraordinary financial challenges. Over the past half-decade, The Times and others had reoriented themselves to reader-centered journalism. The shift in attitude has been like opening a window after a long winter. Journalism should be done as if the readers mattered.But in a divided America there was a risk, too  the risk that we would set our compass by what people wanted rather than giving them the journalism they needed. Among our readers, the appetite for stories that were unflattering to Mr. Trump and the people around him seemed insatiable. There were times, though, when we needed to tell other kinds of stories if we hoped to reflect the world as it was.In late November 2016, Scott Shane of The Timess Washington bureau did a profile of Steve Bannon, at that time Mr. Trumps go-to aide. It was a well-reported piece of journalism done by the book, a profile of a newsmaker that had no ambition beyond letting readers know who this Bannon character was.It set readers hair on fire. Part of it was the digital headline that described Mr. Bannon as combative and a populist when many readers thought racist, white supremacist or xenophobe might have done the trick.If people wanted to see Mr. Bannon as a menace to America, the facts for getting there were to be found in the profile. But if readers preferred to see Mr. Bannon as an enigmatic figure with a rsum that should have led him anywhere but where he ended up, the article gave that narrative, too. It was discouraging that so many people apparently believed that the time-honored journalistic act of telling a story straight had become a problem and that The Times needed instead to take sides and coach readers on what to think.Journalism is hard when people feel the failure to take sides is in and of itself a surrender. It is not an easy time to be speaking up for a journalism that follows the facts wherever they lead, even if our readers (or our president) dont want to be taken there.By the time the profile of Mr. Bannon ran, the alt-right and its enablers had become the masters of trying to silence all the voices they found disagreeable. It was not a model I thought we should emulate. The great risk we face comes not in giving them voice but in taking their worst instincts and making them our own.At least that is the free-press vision I tried to bring to my legal work, even as the president continued his toxic attacks on the press. But it wasnt always possible to hear the fake news drumbeat and shrug. In April 2017, the PR person for a gun-control group wrote to us with a strange cheeriness: Just wanted to let you know that the N.R.A. has released another unhinged video, this time targeting N.Y.T. Apparently, theyre coming for you. Happy Friday!The video was another release from the National Rifle Associations media outlet, NRATV, featuring its favorite over-the-top talking head, Dana Loesch, the go-to ringmaster for the groups propaganda circus. Wearing a white top offset by the all-black background of the NRATV studio, Ms. Loesch spewed out her not-quite-controlled rage about fake news, directly addressing The New York Times. Consider this the shot across your proverbial bow, she announced. Were going to laser-focus on your so-called honest pursuit of truth. In short, were coming for you.Many people at The Times found it chilling and pressed us to respond in some way. All of that was understandable. We have lived through too many death threats to our people. But I questioned whether we really wanted to give the N.R.A. and its fans the satisfaction of an official response from the company. The First Amendment gives a lot of protection to even nasty speakers. We stood down as a company. We were willing to let the hit piece fade into obscurity.I was more than a little surprised, then, to pick up The Times a few months later and find spread across the Sunday Styles section a fairly glowing profile of none other than Dana Loesch. Online, the headline described her as the National Rifle Associations telegenic warrior. The reporter and Ms. Loesch took what seemed like a lovely trip to the neighborhood shooting range. I think, upon reflection, it spoke well of The Times. Ms. Loesch was a person in the news, and we write about people in the news, not just the people we agree with.I never heard whether Ms. Loesch considered the profile fake news, but four weeks later she was once again lighting up the screen at NRATV  literally. A new video showed Ms. Loesch holding up a lighter to a copy of The New York Times. You know, I dont even have to do this, she said. You guys are doing a good enough job burning down your reputations all by yourselves. Lovely.But that is how the First Amendment works  thanks to our profound national commitment to the principle that debate on public issues should be uninhibited, robust and wide open, as Justice William Brennan said in the landmark Times v. Sullivan case, which raised the bar for libel suits against publications. Speakers are allowed to be provocative, colorful, contradictory and wrong.It is a beautiful thing. Bizarre some days, but still beautiful.David McCraw is deputy general counsel of The New York Times Company and the author of Truth in Our Times: Inside the Fight for Press Freedom in the Age of Alternative Facts, from which this essay is adapted.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe president, channeling his hero Andrew Jackson, continues to champion a particularly virulent form of reactionary white majoritarianism.By Jamelle BouieOpinion ColumnistOn Saturday, after Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts formally announced her campaign to oust President Trump from the White House, he took aim at her on Twitter.Today, Elizabeth Warren, sometimes referred to by me as Pocahontas, joined the race for President, he said, making a strange, meta-textual reference to his previous tweets before launching into his usual mockery of Ms. Warrens claims to Native heritage. Will she run as our first Native American presidential candidate, or has she decided that after 32 years, this is not playing so well anymore? See you on the campaign TRAIL, Liz.Most observers took trail as a deliberate reference to the Trail of Tears, the forced relocation throughout the 1830s of several southeastern Native American tribes from their ancestral lands to what would become northeastern Oklahoma. The strongest evidence for this reading is the reaction from supporters. One pro-Trump tweeter directly mentioned the Native American genocide. Trumps oldest son shared similar comments, calling the jab savage.Lying behind all this is Trumps fascination with Andrew Jackson. Jacksons portrait hangs in the Oval Office. He seems to be a figure of admiration for a president who otherwise ignores history. Inspirational visit, I have to tell you, Trump said, when he visited Jacksons mansion in Nashville. Im a fan. We dont need further evidence of Trumps cruelty or racism. But there are moments in his rhetorical flourishes when those qualities come into clear view. At those times its worth focusing on his comments, not as fodder for self-satisfied moral condemnation, but to have a better understanding of the ideas and pathologies he channels and brings to the surface of the national conversation. To that end, his expressions of anti-Native racism are worth a closer look.As an army general, Roxanne Dunbar-Ortiz writes in An Indigenous Peoples History of the United States, Jackson led four wars of aggression against Native tribes in Georgia and Florida. As president, he won passage of the 1830 Indian Removal Act and subsequently engineered the expulsion of all Native peoples east of the Mississippi to the designated Indian Territory, forcing some 70,000 people off their land.This isnt the first time the president has made light of violence inflicted on Native peoples. If Elizabeth Warren, often referred to by me as Pocahontas, did this commercial from Bighorn or Wounded Knee instead of her kitchen, with her husband dressed in full Indian garb, it would have been a smash!, he said last month, attacking one of Warrens videos on Instagram with another oddly self-referential tweet.Its tempting to dismiss these comments as Trump being Trump  unworthy of additional attention or heightened scrutiny. But the substance of these particular references makes that calculus untenable. Wounded Knee Creek in South Dakota was, in December 1890, the site of one of the deadliest attacks on Native Americans by United States military forces. As many as 300 people were killed, in a massacre that continues to weigh on the memories of many American Indian communities. The Battle of Little Bighorn in 1876 was an attempted eviction of Native tribes in present-day Montana, led by Lt. Col. George Armstrong Custer. Outnumbered by Lakota and Cheyenne warriors, Custer and over 200 of his soldiers were killed in a battle that was memorialized as Custers Last Stand.The Trail of Tears began with white American settlers claiming Cherokee and other tribal lands as their own, federal officials coercing tribal leaders into ceding their territory and the United States Army removing the tribes by force. During the infamous forced march of Cherokee people in 1838, harsh winter weather and poor conditions in detention camps led to an estimated death toll of 4,000 people out of the 12,000 expelled from their homes. Other tribes suffered similar death rates in their forced deportations.When Trump jabs at Warren with Pocahontas, hes using the name as an anti-Native caricature. But when he uses Wounded Knee or the Trail of Tears in his attacks, hes grossly trivializing this nations history of genocidal violence against Native Americans, as if there arent still millions of indigenous people living in the United States facing continued discrimination and disadvantage.Like his attacks on prominent African-Americans or his xenophobic smears of Hispanic immigrants, the presidents jokes about these shameful moments in American history are both a performance of racial contempt and an atavistic expression of white supremacist ideology. Its those comments  more so than his election night promise to represent the forgotten man  that forge whatever resemblance Trump has to Andrew Jackson.It was Jackson who first championed reactionary white majoritarianism, Jackson who shepherded this country toward a mass democracy so tied to chattel slavery, settler colonialism and white supremacy that we still struggle to disentangle ourselves from their legacies.Jackson, himself a frontier planter and slave owner, embodied these ideas as he carried them forward. The same is true for Trump, who similarly embodies the drive to preserve hierarchies of race, gender and national origin even as they degrade life for most Americans, including many who think they benefit from them.All of this gives additional meaning to the presidents much-invoked slogan. He will make America great again by reveling in its most shameful actions and miring it in its worst impulses.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Jamelle Bouie became a New York Times Opinion columnist in 2019. Before that he was the chief political correspondent for Slate magazine. He is based in Charlottesville, Va., and Washington.  @jbouie Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with a breakdown in border security talks  and the winners of last nights Grammy Awards.Efforts to reach a border security deal bogged down on Sunday, less than a week before parts of the federal government are again set to run out of money.The details: The breakdown appears to center on Democratic demands for a limit on the number of unauthorized immigrants already in the U.S. who could be detained by Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers. That could force the Trump administration to focus on immigrants with criminal records, rather than on broader sweeps. Looking ahead: President Trump is scheduled to hold a rally tonight in El Paso to build support for his proposed border wall. Officials in the West Texas city dispute the presidents assertion that border fencing has reduced violent crime there.Related: Gov. Gavin Newsom of California is expected to withdraw nearly 400 of his states National Guard troops from the border with Mexico today.One of Robert Muellers prosecutors suggested last week that the special counsel investigation was focusing on Trump campaign officials response to Russias invasion of Ukraine in 2014 and to American sanctions on Moscow.According to a transcript of a hearing in Washington, the prosecutor, Andrew Weissmann, discussed contacts between President Trumps former campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, and a Russian associate. Mr. Muellers team says that Mr. Manafort misled them about those discussions, and when pressed by the judge about why it mattered, Mr. Weissmann said, This goes, I think, very much to the heart of what the special counsels office is investigating.Background: Prosecutions by the special counsel have skirted the question of whether there was some kind of deal between Russia and Mr. Trumps campaign. Persuading the U.S. to ease or end sanctions has been a primary goal of Moscow. Mr. Trump has dismissed Mr. Muellers investigation as a witch hunt.A draft resolution sent to a state House committee on Sunday directs lawmakers to determine whether the sexual assault accusations facing Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax constitute grounds for impeachment.Mr. Fairfax has denied accusations from two women and released a statement over the weekend calling for an investigation and due process.Some Democrats are wary of impeaching Mr. Fairfax, who is black, without taking action against the governor and attorney general, who are white and have resisted calls to step down after acknowledging wearing blackface in the 1980s.Go deeper: Gov. Ralph Northams early life on the Eastern Shore of Virginia helped shape his views on race.Reaction: According to a poll conducted for The Times, one in five American adults has seen someone wear blackface. Far fewer said they had worn blackface themselves.The government in Tehran collapsed on Feb. 11, 1979, after Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, who had helped inspire the uprising, returned from exile.The country has changed enormously in the four decades since, as a growing middle class has quietly rebelled against the rigid ideology of the revolutions early years.Our correspondent in Tehran takes us inside a society where divisions between the private and the public have broken down.Looking ahead: The Trump administration has been pressuring Iraq to stop buying energy from Iran, raising tensions between Washington and Baghdad. In a video she secretly recorded last year, the adult daughter of the ruler of Dubai described a life of rigid restrictions and stunted hopes in the United Arab Emirates: Especially if youre a female, your life is so disposable.In March, the princess known as Sheikha Latifa, pictured above left with her trainer, announced that she had left Dubai for good. But she was soon captured at sea and forcibly taken back. This is the story of her short-lived escape and the video that has reminded the world of the few freedoms allotted to women in the region. Splitting the bill for troops: South Korea agreed on Sunday to increase its contribution for the cost of the U.S. military presence on the Korean Peninsula. The deal resolves a dispute that had raised fears that President Trump might propose a reduced presence as a bargaining chip during his next summit meeting with the North Korean leader.Pacific Northwest snowstorm: Seattle has already had its snowiest February since 1949, and several more storms are threatening the region.The 2020 election: Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota entered the race for the Democratic presidential nomination on Sunday, and Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts formally announced her run on Saturday.Protests in Europe: More than 50,000 people across France marched in the 13th straight weekend of Yellow Vest demonstrations. Separately, protesters in Spain called for the ouster of Prime Minister Pedro Snchez after he proposed talks over the secessionist movement in Catalonia.Snapshot: Above, Lindsey Vonn finished third on Sunday in the final race of her career, in Sweden. The 34-year-old American skier won an unprecedented 20 season-long World Cup discipline and overall titles from 2008 to 2016, as well as three Olympic medals. We selected photographs from her career. Grammy Awards: Kacey Musgraves won album of the year on Sunday for Golden Hour, at a ceremony in which women took center stage. The awards show was criticized last year for its track record on gender representation. Heres the full list of winners, and photographs from the red carpet. What were reading: This essay on digital postpartum loneliness in Wired. Jenna Wortham, a staff writer for The New York Times Magazine, writes: Instagram, in many ways, is an alternate reality. Pieces like these are essential for getting a grip on the projections and narratives that social media fosters.Cook: Transform cauliflower into a weeknight vegan curry. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recipe recommendations.)Go: San Juan, the Puerto Rican capital, offers lovely beaches, energetic night life and gregarious island charm. Watch: Albert Finney, the distinguished British thespian and five-time Oscar nominee, died last week. Stream some of his best performances at home.Listen: Ariana Grandes latest single is Break Up With Your Girlfriend, Im Bored, a satisfying thumper with an astral-trap beat, Jon Caramanica writes.Smarter Living: If you have a chance to spoil yourself, try spending to enhance where you spend the most time. A cruise can be wonderful, but a great mattress or a comfortable pillow offers six to eight hours of pampering every night.Our lead consumer tech writer also has ideas on combating bait apps that lure your kids into buying junk online.It was 1983, and 47 million people in the U.S. were watching Michael Jackson moonwalk across the stage to his hit Billie Jean during a TV special.The performance immortalized a move that recently re-entered the public consciousness when Virginias governor, Ralph Northam, who is white, said he had dressed as Jackson and done the moonwalk during a dance contest in 1984.In Jacksons 1988 autobiography, which shares its name with the famous move, he describes the moonwalk as a popping type of thing that black kids had created dancing on street corners in the ghetto.The moonwalk had been performed for decades by a range of entertainers (albeit often by a more literal name, the backslide). But it was the King of Pop who would be remembered, as one dance critic put it, coasting backward across the stage, step by gliding step, as if on a cushion of air.Thats it for this briefing. Since the Westminster Dog Show begins tonight in New York, we combed through The Timess photo archives and found dogs that were stars long before Instagram. See you next time. ChrisThank youTo Eleanor Stanford, James K. Williamson and John Dorman for the break from the news. Chris Stanford went overtime to write todays Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S. Were listening to The Daily. Todays episode is about President Nicols Maduro of Venezuela, who is preventing millions of dollars worth of aid from entering the country. Heres todays mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: The turf part of surf and turf (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here.  The Times announced its inaugural class of newsroom fellows last week. Twenty-two were selected from more than 5,000 applicants.Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles aweekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Timess news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin Draper and Marc SteinJoshua Kushner, the venture capitalist whose older brother is President Trumps son-in-law and senior adviser, became a minority shareholder of the N.B.A.s Memphis Grizzlies earlier this season, according to four people familiar with the matter.Jesse Derris, a spokesman for Joshua Kushner, confirmed the purchase, as did a spokesman for the N.B.A.Brandon Arrindell and Joshua Kushner recently, in their respective individual capacities, purchased minority stakes in the Grizzlies, said a team spokesman in a statement.Kushner, 33, agreed with Grizzlies owner Robert Pera to purchase a share of the team as a limited partner in late 2018, according to two of the people, who werent authorized to discuss the partnership publicly. The transaction closed at the end of February.Neither Jared Kushner, the presidents son-in-law, nor his father, Charles, who spent 14 months in prison for illegal campaign donations, tax evasion and witness tampering, is involved in the Grizzlies, according to the people. However, Joshua Kushners wealth can be traced to his familys real estate fortune, which funded other investments he has made. Members of the Kushner family have previously lodged unsuccessful bids to buy the Miami Marlins, Los Angeles Dodgers and the Nets when the team was in New Jersey.According to The Daily Memphian, which first reported the agreement, Brandon Arrindell, a principal at a Memphis investment management firm, also purchased a stake in the team.The Kushner investment comes at a time when the relationship between top N.B.A. players and the White House is increasingly tense. No N.B.A. team has visited the White House since Trump became president. The N.B.A. superstars LeBron James and Stephen Curry have engaged in public spats with Trump; James has referred to him as a bum.Joshua Kushners politics are very different from his brothers. Joshua Kushner is a lifelong Democrat and said he did not vote for Trump in 2016. He participated in both the first Womens March and the March for Our Lives protests.The Kushners, especially Jared, have close ties to N.B.A. Commissioner Adam Silver. Silver attends sporting events with Jared Kushner, he told The New Yorker, and Kushner advised the N.B.A. on a real estate search. Kushner, who owned The New York Observer before selling it to his familys trust, also once ordered the deletion of a benign article about Silver purchasing a new apartment, according to BuzzFeed.Joshua Kushner is a mainstay of the New York tech scene, founding the investment firm Thrive Capital, which has $2.5 billion under management, and cofounding Oscar Health, a health start-up. He was brought into the Grizzlies ownership group by Pera, who is also part of the New York tech scene. The deal stemmed from an unusual arrangement Pera had with previous limited partners of the Grizzlies.Pera agreed to purchase the Memphis Grizzlies from Michael Heisley in June 2012 for $377 million. Pera was 34, and made his wealth as the founder of Ubiquiti Networks, a New York-based wireless technology company. He founded Ubiquiti in 2005, and took it public in 2011.But Pera, despite holding a controlling interest in the Grizzlies, purchased only about 25 percent of the franchise and put up just $45 million of his own money, according to The Memphis Flyer. Pera put together a large ownership group to pay for the rest. Steve Kaplan, a Los Angeles investor, and Daniel Straus, the founder of multiple health care companies, each bought a stake worth roughly 14 percent, while a consortium of more than 20 local investors bought the rest.The agreement between Pera, Kaplan and Straus included an unusual buy-sell clause that allowed both Kaplan and Straus to exercise a right to purchase control of the team after five years. Once exercised, one or both of the limited partners could set a new valuation for the franchise. At that price, Pera had to either buy their shares or sell them his.In November 2017, both Kaplan and Straus triggered the clause. After negotiations between the three were unsuccessful, Pera announced in April 2018 that he would retain his majority ownership. ESPN reported he had bought his former partners out at a $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion valuation of the franchise.That meant Pera was forced to raise roughly $375 million  about the same amount the entire team was valued at in 2012  to purchase the Straus and Kaplan shares. It seems he brought on minority investors to help shoulder that financial commitment.The Grizzlies have slumped to a record of 29-42 after a promising start and will miss the N.B.A. playoffs for the second consecutive season. In February, Memphis traded its former All-Star center Marc Gasol to Toronto and is widely expected to trade the last remaining link to the clubs playoff successes  Mike Conley  in the off-season.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Ben Protess and Benjamin WeiserRobert S. Khuzami, a senior federal prosecutor in Manhattan who oversaw the criminal case against Michael D. Cohen, President Trumps former lawyer and fixer, will step down next month.Mr. Khuzamis departure, announced on Friday by Geoffrey S. Berman, the top federal prosecutor in Manhattan, comes even as his offices investigation into Mr. Trumps inner circle continues on multiple fronts. Mr. Berman will appoint his senior counsel, Audrey Strauss, to replace Mr. Khuzami as deputy United States attorney.A public face of investigations that pose potential threats to Mr. Trumps presidency, Mr. Khuzami, 62, has told colleagues that his departure is for personal reasons and unrelated to any political pressure. The announcement comes as the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, is said to be close to wrapping up his nearly two-year investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election.Unlike Mr. Mueller, Mr. Khuzami has not faced personal and public ridicule from Mr. Trump. Registered as nonpartisan, Mr. Khuzami has served during Republican and Democratic administrations and has a reputation as a straight shooter.The Southern District of New York, as the United States attorneys office in Manhattan is known, has long displayed independence from the Justice Department in Washington, prosecuting politicians of all political stripes. The offices reputation for autonomy earned it a nickname: the Sovereign District of New York.Mr. Khuzamis decision to leave the Southern District of New York caps a consequential 15-month tenure as Mr. Bermans deputy; most notably, he oversaw the investigation into hush money payments made during the 2016 campaign to two women who had said they had affairs with Mr. Trump. Mr. Cohen pleaded guilty in that case and is scheduled to begin a three-year prison sentence in May.Mr. Berman, who was appointed in January 2018 by the Trump administration, made Mr. Khuzami his first hire. A prosecutor in the same office earlier in his career, Mr. Khuzami assumed responsibility for the Cohen investigation after Mr. Berman was recused from the case for undisclosed reasons.With Mr. Khuzamis departure, Ms. Strauss would assume oversight of any remaining aspects of the Cohen investigation that were subject to Mr. Bermans recusal; she would not come to the Cohen case cold, as she has been working with Mr. Khuzami on the investigation. Craig A. Stewart, a former Southern District prosecutor now at the law firm Arnold & Porter, will become Mr. Bermans chief counsel.Mr. Khuzamis plans were unclear. He had bounced between the private sector and government service for years. In taking the job as the deputy United States attorney, Mr. Khuzami left behind a lucrative partnership at the law firm Kirkland & Ellis in Washington, where he has lived even while commuting to New York. He had told friends that he had always planned to return home to his family this year, and Mr. Berman said Friday that Mr. Khuzami would return to Washington.After putting himself through college by working odd jobs as a dishwasher and overnight dockworker, Mr. Khuzami has had a number of brushes with power, both in the places he worked and the people he prosecuted.In his earlier Southern District stint, in the 1990s, Mr. Khuzami cut his teeth as a terrorism and financial crimes prosecutor. In perhaps his biggest case, Mr. Khuzami helped secure the conviction of Omar Abdel Rahman and other conspirators in a plot to blow up New York City landmarks.In 2002, he joined Deutsche Bank, where he ultimately became general counsel for the firms American arm. He left in 2009, during the Obama administration, to run the Securities and Exchange Commissions enforcement division, where he sued Goldman Sachs over financial crisis-era misconduct.In his role as deputy United States attorney over the past 15 months, Mr. Khuzami has overseen several investigations that Mr. Berman was recused from, but none was more prominent than Mr. Cohens case, which burst into public view in April 2018 when the F.B.I. raided Mr. Cohens home, office and hotel room.Four months later, Mr. Cohen pleaded guilty to breaking campaign finance laws, including for paying $130,000 to the pornographic film actress Stormy Daniels to keep her quiet about an affair she said she had with Mr. Trump. Mr. Khuzamis prosecutors argued that the payment was an excessive contribution to Mr. Trumps campaign, noting that Ms. Danielss silence bolstered his election chances and that campaign finance law caps individual donations to a presidential candidate in the general election at $2,700.In seeking a stiff sentence for Mr. Cohen, Mr. Khuzamis prosecutors contended in a court filing that he acted in coordination with and at the direction of Mr. Trump. The president later suggested that Mr. Khuzamis prosecutors used the case against Mr. Cohen to embarrass him.Even with Mr. Khuzamis departure, the Southern District is expected to continue its investigation into the hush money payments, which could involve a decision about whether to take any future action against Mr. Trump or others at the Trump Organization, where Mr. Cohen had worked for a decade.Follow Ben Protess and Benjamin Weiser on Twitter: @BenProtess @BenWeiserNYTAdvertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byRace/Related is a weekly newsletter focused on race and identity, with provocative stories from around The New York Times.By Lauretta CharltonPlease sign up here to have the Race/Related newsletter delivered weekly to your inbox.It has been painful to watch the downfall of the actor Jussie Smollett. By now, you are familiar with his story. In January he claimed to have been attacked by two Trump supporters on a cold night in Chicago. Smollett, who is gay and black, recounted that they shouted This is MAGA country, roughed him up, called him racial and homophobic slurs and put a noose around his neck.But according to Chicago police, it was all a hoax. The actor practiced and staged the charade and paid two co-conspirators  Abimbola and Olabinjo Osundairo  to carry out the attack, authorities say, because he was dissatisfied with his salary on the show Empire, for which he has a starring role.In the immediate aftermath of Smolletts claim, we wrote about the unique challenge of being black and gay, and how that identity can make one feel especially vulnerable. Jussie is us. That couldve been any of us, said a friend of my colleague Pierre-Antoine Louis. A few of you wrote in to say that Smolletts story sounded fishy from the very beginning and that it was too soon to jump to conclusions. That, as we have learned, was absolutely right. But it is also true that hate crimes have been on the rise for three years, and that three out of five hate crimes in 2017 were motivated by race.Once the news broke that the reported attack may have been orchestrated by Smollett, Pierre said he felt embarrassed and was worried that people would question his own experience. But he added: Just because theres one false report doesnt mean that the issues we face daily arent real.False reports of hate crimes are extremely rare  less than 1 percent of those reported, according to some studies  but they tend to draw attention, making it easier for people to denounce them as identity politics run amok, or simply what happens when we treat victimhood as currency.Smollett was arrested on a felony charge Thursday, and his legal team has denied the claims made by the police. He wants nothing more than to clear his name, said Jack Prior, one of Smolletts lawyers.Eddie T. Johnson, the superintendent of the Chicago Police Department, was visibly upset during a news conference about Smollett. He said the actor had taken advantage of the pain and anger of racism, draining resources that could have been used to investigate crimes for which people were actually suffering.I just wish that the families of gun violence in this city got this much attention, he said. I do too. Lauretta Charlton is an editor on the National Desk and the editor of the Race/Related newsletter. She was previously a news editor at The New Yorker and a music columnist at New York magazine.  @laurettaland Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byGood Friday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.) Capitalism helped Ray Dalio build his investment empire. But in a lengthy LinkedIn post, the Bridgewater Associates founder says that it isnt working anymore. Mr. Dalio writes that he has seen capitalism evolve in a way that it is not working well for the majority of Americans because its producing self-reinforcing spirals up for the haves and down for the have-nots. Disparity in wealth, especially when accompanied by disparity in values, leads to increasing conflict and, in the government, that manifests itself in the form of populism of the left and populism of the right and often in revolutions of one sort or another. The problem is that capitalists typically dont know how to divide the pie well and socialists typically dont know how to grow it well. We are now seeing conflicts between populists of the left and populists of the right increasing around the world in much the same way as they did in the 1930s when the income and wealth gaps were comparably large. It doesnt take a genius to know that when a system is producing outcomes that are so inconsistent with its goals, it needs to be reformed.Stay tuned: Mr. Dalio says that hell offer his solutions in another essay.A federal judge gave Elon Musk and the S.E.C. two weeks to resolve a dispute about whether Mr. Musk violated a settlement he reached with the commission, Matthew Goldstein of the NYT reports.Mr. Musks tweeting is at the heart of the skirmish. The S.E.C. says that a tweet about Tesla production numbers violated the settlement, in which he promised to get approval from a Tesla lawyer before publishing any Twitter posts that include potentially market-sensitive information.His lawyers insist that the tweet didnt contain material information. One of them said yesterday that the S.E.C.s policy on what needs to be vetted was murky. Judge Alison Nathan of Federal District Court in Manhattan wondered if there was a lack of clarity and whether the settlement should be modified or struck down.Take a deep breath, Judge Nathan told both sides. She added that they should put on their reasonableness pants to find common ground.This is something of a victory for Mr. Musk, who could have been fined if he was found to be in contempt, Mr. Goldstein writes. But Judge Nathan told Mr. Musk that, regardless of how powerful a person he is, a court order is not optional.More: Tesla shares fell after it reported delivering fewer vehicles than expected in the first quarter. And the automakers electric vehicle competition appears to be catching up.Jeff and MacKenzie Bezos said yesterday that they had finalized their divorce  and she will keep a big chunk of the Amazon empire.Mr. Bezos will keep 75 percent of the couples Amazon stock  which means he will hold about 12 percent of the companys shares  as well as their familys ownership interests in the WaPo and the Blue Origin space exploration company. Thats enough to keep his title as the worlds richest man.More important for him, hell keep voting control of Ms. Bezoss shares. Even if she sells them, the recipient has to agree to hand over voting rights to Mr. Bezos.Ms. Bezos could have been entitled to half of the couples holdings under Washington State law, according to legal experts. Its not clear what other compensation she is receiving from the split.But her holdings are valued at about $36 billion, making her one of the wealthiest women in the world. In her first-ever tweet, Ms. Bezos wrote, Excited about my own plans. Grateful for the past as I look forward to what comes next.Initial findings from an investigation into the Ethiopian Airlines crash last month suggest that Boeing didnt give pilots enough guidance on new anti-stall software in the 737 Max 8.The Ethiopian Airlines pilots followed Boeings instructions when the anti-stall system kicked in, the report suggests. They then shut down the software and tried to retake control  but failed to do so. Four minutes later, the plane crashed.The system appeared to have forced the planes nose down several times in less than three minutes. It left the pilot with no ability to gain control of the aircraft if it went to the full limit, Dennis Tajer, a spokesman for American Airliness pilots union, told the NYT. Its our responsibility to eliminate this risk, Dennis Muilenburg, Boeings C.E.O., said yesterday. We own it, and we know how to do it. Boeing has found a second software flaw in the 737 Max 8, separate from the anti-stall feature. The FT reports that this was the reason for a delay in rolling out software fixes for the plane.President Trump reportedly hoped to announce a final trade agreement between the U.S. and China yesterday. But he stopped short of that, Anna Swanson of the NYT reports, instead saying that it may take at least four more weeks to secure an epic trade deal. The United States and China continue to haggle over some remaining issues, including how many of the American tariffs on Chinese goods will be removed, and when. In remarks at the White House, Mr. Trump said that the deal was very complete and that the two sides had agreed to far more than we have left to agree to.  I think I can say some of the toughest things have been agreed to, Mr. Trump added.Yet no matter what, Mr. Trump can already claim a trade victory. Spurred by tariffs and trade tensions, global companies are beginning to shift their supply chains away from China, just as some Trump administration officials had wanted, Keith Bradsher of the NYT writes.Herman Cain, the former C.E.O. of the Godfathers Pizza chain and a presidential hopeful in 2012, may soon become President Trumps next pick as a Fed governor.Mr. Cain is perhaps best remembered for his 2012 run for president, when he proposed an unorthodox 9-9-9 economic plan: a flat 9 percent tax rate, 9 percent business tax and 9 percent national sales tax.But Mr. Trump wants him on the Fed, calling him a truly outstanding individual. His nomination is dependent on the White House vetting process.Mr. Trumps pick comes as the president has soured on the Fed. The president has told associates that selecting Jay Powell as the Feds chairman was a mistake, because of his insistence on raising interest rates.But the presidents Fed choices are drawing brickbats. Like Stephen Moore, the economics commentator whom Mr. Trump has already nominated for a place on the Fed board, Mr. Cain doesnt have what critics say are the requisite qualifications.Critics worry that Mr. Trump is politicizing the Fed, which is meant to be apolitical. The possible nominations of Mr. Moore and Mr. Cain have the potential to undermine the credibility of monetary policy, Sarah Bloom Raskin, a Fed governor under President Barack Obama, told the NYT.JPMorgan Chase released its annual report to investors yesterday, and it included a long letter from Jamie Dimon about the banks role in shaping America.The biggest problems facing the U.S., according to Mr. Dimon, include education, immigration, health care costs, cyberattacks and excessive regulation.Capitalism is under pressure, but its better than socialism, he argues. Socialism inevitably produces stagnation, corruption and often worse, Mr. Dimon writes. But the JPMorgan chief also distinguishes social democrats, which some Democrats identify as, from true socialists.C.E.O.s and companies should be more active in public life, Mr. Dimon writes, particularly when they or their companies can uniquely help design policies that are good for America.To respond, JPMorgan plans to strengthen its public policy teams to take our advocacy and ideas to the next level, he writes.More: Jamie Dimon reportedly spent much of last year considering a run for president  but decided there was no way a Wall Street C.E.O. could win.Rudy Giuliani, who was President Trumps personal lawyer during the special counsels investigation into Russian interference in the U.S. election, is a very busy man, according to Stephanie Baker of Bloomberg Businessweek. Mr. Giuliani runs a globe-trotting consulting business, Ms. Baker writes. In the past two years hes given speeches and done consulting and legal work in Armenia, Bahrain, Brazil, Colombia, Turkey, and Uruguay, among other countries, as well as significant work in Ukraine. But the question of conflict arises, in part, because Giuliani keeps popping up in world capitals to make pronouncements that dovetail with Trumps foreign policy positions. Mr. Giuliani says he tells clients that he doesnt lobby the U.S. government.  Theres no conflict. Whats the conflict? he said. I dont ask the president for anything for them ever. He later added, I dont peddle influence. I dont have to. I make a good deal of money as a lawyer and as a security consultant.  Whatever he does next, whether its continuing as Trumps personal lawyer or going back to full-time consulting, Giuliani is confident the business will continue to flow. I got clients before I represented President Trump, and Im gonna get clients afterwards, he said. After I stop representing him, Ill be doing more work overseas, because Ill have more time. The World Banks board is reportedly expected to approve David Malpass as its president today.Lars Idermark resigned as Swedbanks chairman amid an investigation into alleged money laundering at the Swedish lender.President Trump plans to nominate Jovita Carranza, the U.S. treasurer, as his pick to lead the Small Business Administration, potentially replacing Linda McMahon.The Senate confirmed Mark Calabria, Vice President Mike Pences chief economist, as Mr. Trumps pick to oversee Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.Deals The company created to hold Yahoos $50 billion stake in the Alibaba Group plans to finally dissolve itself and distribute its holdings. (WSJ) The European Central Bank reportedly will ask Deutsche Bank to raise fresh capital if it merges with Commerzbank. (Reuters) Shares in Tradeweb, the bond-trading platform, jumped 27 percent on the companys first day on the public markets. (Bloomberg) Canyon Capital began a proxy fight at the student loan provider Navient yesterday and plans to seek four board seats. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy President Trump backed off his plan to close the border with Mexico, and instead threatened auto tariffs. (WSJ) Mr. Trump signaled that he may block an effort to obtain six years worth of his tax returns. But even if lawmakers got the documents, they may not get the financial details theyre seeking. (WaPo, Bloomberg) Speaker Nancy Pelosi said shed rather build on the Affordable Care Act than adopt Medicare-for-all. (WaPo) The Justice Department defended Attorney General William Barrs handling of the Mueller report. (NYT)Brexit Prime Minister Theresa May has asked the E.U. to extend the Brexit deadline to June 30. The European Councils president, Donald Tusk, had reportedly been preparing to offer a 12-month flexible delay. (BBC) Ms. Mays attempts to reach cross-party agreement on her Brexit deal have made little progress. She is expected to offer a written proposal to Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the opposition Labour Party, which will reportedly let lawmakers vote on whether to hold a referendum on any Brexit deal. (FT, Guardian)Tech Britain is reportedly considering holding social media executives personally liable for harmful content on their platforms. (Guardian) Google has scrapped its A.I. ethics board a little over a week after it was announced, after its choice of panel members drew criticism. (FT) Microsoft is investigating sexual harassment claims that employees say were overlooked by its H.R. department. (Quartz) Amazon is denting Googles ad dominance. And Snap is about to try to take some of the same pie, too. (WSJ, Recode)Best of the rest Leaders of Berkshire Hathaways many businesses are collaborating far more often now, suggesting a new way of doing business once Warren Buffett is no longer C.E.O. (WSJ) A Tokyo court approved a 10-day detention of Carlos Ghosn, which his lawyer plans to appeal. Meanwhile, his wife spoke out about his latest arrest. (Reuters, NYT) WikiLeaks says that Ecuador will evict Julian Assange from its London embassy within days. Ecuador denies the claim. (Bloomberg, Business Insider)Thanks for reading! Well see you next week.Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Austin RamzyA soccer player who was jailed in Thailand and faced being sent back to his native Bahrain, where he said he would be imprisoned and tortured, was released Monday after Thai prosecutors dropped the extradition case against him.On Tuesday afternoon, the player, Hakeem al-Araibi, arrived back in Australia, where he has refugee status. He was greeted at the airport in Melbourne by a swarm of well-wishers, who started singing, Youll Never Walk Alone, a popular soccer anthem.Amazing to see all the people here, he said. Im going to die in Australia. Australia is my country, he added. I love Australia.Mr. al-Araibi, 25, who had been a star defender for the Bahrain national soccer team, fled the small Gulf nation in 2011 during a crackdown on Arab Spring protesters. He said he had been tortured by government security forces. He has been playing soccer for a minor team in Melbourne, Australia.After his arrest in November at an airport in Bangkok, he became the focus of lobbying by diplomats, prominent sports figures and a social media campaign under the hashtag #savehakeem.Mr. al-Araibi left for Australia as soon as his departure was approved.This is the best outcome, said his lawyer, Natalie Bergman. It should have happened from the beginning, but later is better than nothing.After Mr. al-Araibis arrival in Australia, Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Foreign Affairs Minister Marise Payne released a joint statement commending the Thai government for its decision and noting the constructive dialogue that we have had with Bahrain in helping to resolve this issue.The statement added: We know all Australians will deeply appreciate the decision, allowing him to return to his wife, family and friends.Mr. al-Araibi traveled to Thailand last year for a honeymoon and was detained with his wife. She was released, but Mr. al-Araibi remained in detention as Bahrain pursued his extradition.He had been convicted in absentia and sentenced to 10 years in prison for charges including the burning of a police station, which he said occurred while he was playing in a televised match.The royal family of Bahrain, which is Sunni Muslim, has pursued an aggressive crackdown against calls for democracy from the kingdoms Shiite Muslim majority, including a campaign of widespread arrests and many convictions on what human rights groups say are trumped-up charges.Thailand, which has been run by a military junta since a 2014 coup, has sent people fleeing political oppression back to countries including China, raising fears that Mr. al-Araibi would also be returned.But the country has also shown signs that it can be moved by international pressure.Last month, a Saudi woman who said she was fleeing abuse from her family barricaded herself in a Bangkok airport hotel room and rallied support to her cause online. The woman, Rahaf Mohammed Alqunun, 18, was allowed to leave the airport after a two-day standoff and was granted asylum in Canada.Mr. al-Araibi received widespread support from the international sports world, including FIFA, the international body that oversees global soccer; the International Olympic Committee; and the World Players Association, an umbrella group representing 85,000 professional athletes worldwide.Jamie Vardy, a striker for the English Premier League club Leicester City, expressed support for Mr. al-Araibi on Twitter, and Craig Foster, a broadcaster and former captain of the Australian national mens team, was a prominent advocate for his release.This is a big victory for that global campaign and marks the fact that football will have to play an important role in human rights going forward, said Phil Robertson, deputy Asia director for Human Rights Watch. They call football the beautiful game, and it is a beautiful day for the beautiful game.Mr. Foster, who lobbied FIFA officials and shouted his support to Mr. al-Araibi when he appeared at a hearing last week in leg shackles, expressed his gratitude to the Thai government for dropping the case.Most important thing now is Hakeems immediate well-being, Mr. Foster said on Twitter after the ruling was announced. Sure embassy staff will take care of him, therell be tears there tonight, as there are in our household right now.When Mr. al-Araibi arrived in Melbourne, Mr. Foster placed his arms around his shoulders.To see him back here on home soil today speaks volumes about the character, the values and the pride that we have as Australians, Mr. Foster said.The Thai foreign minister, Don Pramudwinai, visited Bahrain and met on Sunday with Salman bin Hamad al-Khalifa, the crown prince, the state-run Bahrain News Agency reported. No details of their discussion were released.The decision to drop the case came after the government of Bahrain told Thai diplomats that it did not want to pursue it, said Chatchom Akapin, director general for international affairs for the Thai attorney generals office.We got information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs this morning that Bahrain is not interested in extraditing Hakeem anymore, he said. Therefore, the attorney general office decided it was no use to pursue the case.Follow Austin Ramzy on Twitter: @austinramzy.Muktita Suhartono and Jenina Ibaez contributed reporting.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Robert PearWASHINGTON  President Trumps nominee for attorney general, William P. Barr, has expressed extreme hostility to whistle-blower protections in federal law that allow private citizens to win financial rewards for exposing fraud in federal programs.Mr. Barrs views on executive power and the investigation of President Trump by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, will hold much of the spotlight Tuesday, but he will also come under sharp pressure to renounce his position on whistle-blower protections at his confirmation hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee.That is because the whistle-blower law is strongly supported by a Republican whose vote he needs, Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa.Im confident that he understands the significance of this law to fight fraud and guard taxpayer dollars, Mr. Grassley said Monday, promising to press the nominee at Tuesdays hearing.As an assistant attorney general in the first Bush administration in 1989, Mr. Barr wrote a lengthy legal opinion asserting that the law was unconstitutional. The law poses a devastating threat to presidential authority and replaces the prosecutorial discretion of the Justice Department with the mercenary motives of private bounty hunters, he wrote.Mr. Barr acknowledged that the law, which allows private citizens to sue on behalf of the government, had roots that went back to 14th century England and the earliest days of the American Republic. But he said that George Washington and other framers of the Constitution would probably not have accepted it if they had fully understood its implications.When he wrote the opinion, Mr. Barr was the head of the Office of Legal Counsel, the Justice Department office that provides legal advice to the president and the attorney general.He was assailing the False Claims Act, which authorizes any person to file a lawsuit in the name of the government to recover damages and penalties from anyone who has knowingly submitted a false or fraudulent request for payment of federal dollars.If confirmed, Mr. Barr would be in charge of administering and enforcing the law and working with whistle-blowers.But first, he must navigate through a committee full of supporters of the law he has called an abomination.Besides Mr. Grassley, the whistle-blower law has been backed strongly by Senators Richard J. Durbin of Illinois and Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, both Democrats. Another member of the panel, Senator Kamala Harris, Democrat of California, used her states False Claims Act to pursue fraud in Medicaid and the mortgage industry when she was attorney general of California.Mr. Barrs objections to the False Claims Act were consistent with his expansive view of presidential power.The Supreme Court has consistently ruled that the authority to enforce the laws is a core power vested in the Executive, Mr. Barr wrote. The False Claims Act effectively strips this power away from the Executive and vests it in private individuals, depriving the Executive of sufficient supervision and control over the exercise of these sovereign powers.The False Claims Act, also known as Lincolns law, was adopted in 1863 in response to rampant fraud by contractors who cheated the government by selling the Union Army sick mules, lame horses and sawdust instead of gunpowder.In 1986, Congress strengthened the law by increasing incentives for whistle-blowers to file lawsuits alleging false claims. As a reward, a whistle-blower can receive up to 30 percent of any amounts recovered, with the balance going to the Treasury.In the three decades since adoption of that law, championed by Mr. Grassley, the government has recovered more than $59 billion. Last year, for example, the Justice Department obtained more than $2.8 billion in settlements and judgments from civil cases involving fraud and false claims against the government. Of that amount, $2.5 billion came from the health care industry, including drug and medical device manufacturers, hospitals, doctors and home health care companies.Mr. Barrs opposition to the law continued after he left the Justice Department.The Supreme Court upheld the whistle-blower provisions of the law in 2000, in an opinion by Justice Antonin Scalia. But a year later, in an interview for an oral history of the presidency of George H.W. Bush, Mr. Barr described the whistle-blower law as an abomination and repeated some of the objections raised in his 1989 opinion.Mr. Barr argued that the whistle-blower law was unconstitutional for several reasons: It violates a provision of the Constitution specifying how federal officials are to be appointed. Whistle-blowers have not personally suffered an injury and therefore do not have a right, or standing, to be in court. And the law violates the constitutional doctrine of separation of powers among the three branches of government.Mr. Barr said he was particularly upset because, under the law, whistle-blowers could second-guess the attorney general, challenging litigation decisions by the government and its efforts to dismiss or settle a case.Lawyers for whistle-blowers said Mr. Barr fundamentally misunderstood the purpose of the False Claims Act and the 1986 amendments, adopted to address widespread fraud by federal contractors.For more than three decades, the False Claims Act has served the Department of Justice and the American taxpayer extraordinarily well, said Robert Patten, the president and chief executive of Taxpayers Against Fraud, a nonprofit group that supports the law. In a letter to members of the Judiciary Committee, he urged them to pin down Mr. Barrs current views of the law.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe InterpreterBy Max Fisher and Amanda TaubLONDON  Two very different presidents, Donald J. Trump and Emmanuel Macron of France, are each pursuing a time-tested strategy for leaders trying to push through a major policy change: marshaling a sense of crisis.For Mr. Trump, claims of mayhem at the border, which far exceed the reality there, are meant to draw support for a border wall. For Mr. Macron, the very real threat of climate change is meant to compel economic policy shifts, including new taxes.Each is arguing that existential stakes demand drastic action, with Mr. Trump threatening to declare a national emergency, which would grant him extraordinary powers. And each is attempting to rally his countrys voters and policymakers around a common mission.But each faces disappointment. Mr. Trump, three weeks into a government shutdown, so far has neither sufficient public nor congressional support for a border wall. Mr. Macrons agenda has been derailed by mass protests.Their setbacks illuminate when a sense of crisis does or doesnt take hold  and when leaders can and cant exploit that to get their way.Time and again, in democracies and nondemocracies around the world, voters and government officials have shown that they will support drastic actions, and defer more readily to their leaders, during crises.Power-hungry leaders have long exploited crises, real or engineered, to justify seizing control. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey used a failed coup against him, in 2016, to justify sweeping political purges.It is not always about grabbing power. Leaders often use crises to promote policies that they see as necessary but that voters might otherwise not support.You never want a serious crisis to go to waste, Rahm Emanuel, President Barack Obamas chief of staff, said in 2008, referring to Mr. Obamas proposals for stricter regulations in response to the financial crisis. This crisis provides the opportunity for us, he said, to do things that you could not before.There is, of course, no central authority or accepted checklist for determining when a crisis is real, and severe enough to merit drastic action. Its a matter of subjective public perception. But there is growing research into what leads people to support drastic steps from their leaders.Take Mr. Trumps push for a border wall. Whatever his intentions  to win the wall, to rally the base, to distract from setbacks or merely out of impulse  during his election campaign, and again during the midterm elections, he has hit squarely on two psychological triggers that can make people want a strong leader to take control.The first is a sense of demographic and cultural change, particularly when that change feels uncontrolled. Among some white Americans, the growing prominence of minority groups in politics and popular culture has created a sense of demographic threat, according to researchers, leading those voters to desire a strong leader who would impose control.Mr. Trump used warnings about unauthorized immigration to cultivate a sense of crisis  though unauthorized immigration has been declining for a decade (and the migrants traveling to make asylum applications are exercising a basic legal right)  that hit on those fears. And he used promises of a border wall to reassure frightened voters that he would protect them.The second trigger is fear of a specific kind of violence. People feel a sense of acute crisis if they believe that they may be attacked for their membership in a demographic group, such as race or religion, according to research by Daphna Canetti-Nisim, a University of Maryland political psychologist. They become more supportive of harsh policies to control outsiders, such as torture or extrajudicial detention, and more supportive of a strong leader who will go outside the law.Mr. Trump tapped into this as well, warning that Hispanic and Muslim migrants posed a grave danger, though the threat was almost entirely invented. In Britain, proponents of withdrawal from the European Union, or Brexit, followed a similar playbook.Meanwhile, Mr. Macron has struggled to find an audience for his warnings about climate change. That threat is perilously real. But it is also abstract and impersonal. It does not target individuals based on their identities or hit other triggers that make something feel like a crisis. So French voters, far from mobilizing behind Mr. Macrons priorities, have protested against economic challenges that feel more immediate.Mr. Trumps case for a border wall may have cultivated a sense of urgent crisis among his supporters, helping his unlikely presidential bid succeed. But there was another audience he never quite captured: the policymaking and government elites who control the levers of power.In a strong democracy, leaders need both voters and elites to radically change the national agenda. The Sept. 11 attacks, for instance, created a sense of crisis among regular Americans as well as policymakers in both parties, allowing President George W. Bush to make sweeping changes in domestic and foreign policy.But elites and voters perceive crises very differently. Mr. Trump has yet to win enough support from congressional Republicans, much less from within the policymaking bureaucracy, to build his wall. Elites who otherwise supported the president were not as moved by his tales of dangerous foreigners.Typically, when voters see something as a crisis but elites do not, the result is gridlock, as Mr. Trump found with plans for his wall. In weaker democracies, this sometimes tempts leaders to push elites and institutions like the courts aside, denouncing them as hurdles to popular will. It's why dictators love crises, the democracy scholars Steven Levitsky and Daniel Ziblatt have written, as an excuse to grab power  often to cheers from their supporters.Sometimes leaders face the inverse problem, particularly with slow-moving crises like climate change that might worry elites more than voters.Mr. Obama was able to rally international leaders behind a global climate agreement in 2015  no small task  but struggled to pass legislation on the issue at home. Mr. Macron, likewise, has had more success with fellow European leaders than with his own voters.Convincing voters to trust elites on what constitutes a crisis has not always been a such a challenge. Voters once tended to defer on complicated policy issues to trusted leaders or their preferred political party, according to research by Elizabeth N. Saunders of Georgetown University.During the Cold War, for instance, governing elites in Western Europe considered the threat from the Soviet Union a major crisis, pushing through sweeping changes to military and foreign policy. European voters were more concerned with day-to-day economic issues, generally leaving their leaders to conduct foreign policy as they wished.But, in recent years, public trust in establishment elites has broken down across the West. Voters are more skeptical of the elites priorities.Some in France, not totally without reason, see Mr. Macrons climate change agenda as a smoke screen for plans to shred the social safety net. In Britain, many voters shrugged off elites who told them that Brexit would bring disaster. And in the United States, some Republican voters came to believe that their partys establishment was selling them out.That widening mismatch in priorities between elites and voters has provided an opening for populist leaders. By telling voters that elites are ignoring the real crisis, populists can portray the establishment as part of the threat, justifying drastic action like Mr. Trumps threatened declaration of emergency.These breakdowns can bring their own sorts of crises  real ones.In France, weeks of violent protests by the Yellow Vest movement have brought political uncertainty.And in the United States, many migrants and refugees are trapped in detention facilities or at the border. Hundreds of thousands of federal employees are going without paychecks.For the families broken apart or going without pay, there is little doubt that this is a crisis. But as long as many Americans and their leaders do not consider it an emergency, little appears likely to change.The Interpreter is a column by Max Fisher and Amanda Taub exploring the ideas and context behind major world events. Follow them on Twitter @Max_Fisher and @amandataub.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byFRONT PAGEAn article on Saturday about the political stalemate over funding of a border wall misstated the amount of money in emergency aid the Army Corps of Engineers has been directed to study as a possible source of funding for a border barrier. It is $13.9 billion, not $13.9 million.An article on Monday about President Trumps continuing conflicts with Congress misstated Speaker Nancy Pelosis schedule during the weekend. Her staff said she was in Washington; she had not, as the article stated, left town.NATIONALAn article on Monday about statements from three Democratic House committee chairmen about Michael Cohen misstated Mr. Cohens business relationship with his father-in-law. They were never business partners; Mr. Shusterman owned seven taxi medallion corporations.NEW YORKAn article on Saturday about new members of the New York State Senate, relying on information provided by the Senate Democrats press office, misstated Julia Salazars age. She is 28, not 27.OBITUARIESBecause of an editing error, a picture caption with an obituary on Saturday about the musician Joseph Jarman, best known for his work with the Art Ensemble of Chicago, misidentified the members of the ensemble. Pictured in the photograph, from left, are Roscoe Mitchell, Mr. Jarman, Famoudou Don Moye and Malachi Favors  not Mr. Favors, Mr. Mitchell, Mr. Jarman and Mr. Moye. In addition, the obituary misidentified the venue in Manhattan where Mr. Jarman made his last public appearance, in 2017. It is the Lenfest Center for the Arts, not the Miller Theater.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byWhat a brave Jew at a Nazi rally in New York tells us about our times.By Roger CohenOpinion ColumnistHis name is Isadore Greenbaum. Hes a Jew, a plumbers helper from Brooklyn. He rushes onto the stage, beneath a portrait of George Washington flanked by swastikas. He tries to accost the Nazi who is denouncing the Jewish-controlled press and calling for a white gentile-ruled United States. Uniformed storm troopers beat him. Police officers drag him from the stage, pants ripped, arms raised in desperate entreaty. The mob howls in delight.Its Feb. 20, 1939. More than 20,000 Nazi sympathizers are packed into Madison Square Garden as Greenbaum attempts to silence Fritz Kuhn, Bundesfhrer (so-called) of the German American Bund. Greenbaum has been enraged by Kuhns demand that the country be delivered from Jewish clutches and returned to the American people who founded it.The 26-year-old Jew is brought before a magistrate who, according to an account in this newspaper, tells him that innocent people might have been killed. To which Greenbaum retorts, Do you realize that plenty of Jewish people might be killed with their persecution up there?Plenty is an inadequate word for six million, but that was 1939 and human beings tend not to imagine the unimaginable. The pale, dismayed face of the young Jewish boy, arms raised, being rounded up in the Warsaw ghetto in 1943 is well known. Greenbaums expression of terrorized anguish in New York City presages it.All this is caught in Marshall Currys remarkable Oscar-nominated documentary short, A Night at the Garden, composed of footage from the time. Attacks on the press; the take-back-our-country cry; hymns to the true American (or German): Theres not much new, as Curry notes, about fascism.The movie brings to mind a phrase of Hannah Arendts that has haunted me about how most people will comply under conditions of terror but some will not: No more is required, she wrote, and no more can reasonably be asked, for this planet to remain a place fit for human habitation.Think the Tank Man of Tiananmen Square. Think Anton Schmid, the sergeant in Hitlers army who helped Jews in the Vilnius ghetto and was executed in 1942. Think Ron Ridenhour, the helicopter gunner in Vietnam spurred by conscience to gather information that led to the official investigation into the My Lai massacre. Think Isadore Greenbaum. It is of the essence of such gestures that they appear futile, yet have the power to redeem humanity.Our age, too, is one of demagogues. What are we to make of our ivory-gold colossus  James Lasduns phrase in his brilliant new novel of the #MeToo era, Afternoon of a Faun? This colossus at once menacing and cosmically aggrieved who for two hours perorates before the Conservative Political Action Conference (only would-be or actual dictators afflicted with narcissistic disorders talk for that long) and declares: Im in love, and youre in love. Were all in love together.Who, for President Trump, are his people in love? They are our people. Now, our people are not synonymous with the American people. This president, unlike his predecessors, has never seen himself as the president of all Americans.No, they are the CPAC crowd, his fans. They are the tough people, the people who could make things very bad if necessary  police and military and bikers who, the president claimed in an interview with Breitbart News this month, support him. He needs people in his thrall, like that Madison Square Garden crowd. As Lasdun wrote, Nothing short of dominion over the entire universe could compensate for the wrongs done to him.The wrongs, that is, of journalists, judges and Hollywood directors  anyone who thinks the president might just be a dangerous white nationalist charlatan. Why think that? Because Trump, from Day 1, has maligned brown people and Muslims; and, as president, he saw very fine people on both sides at the 2017 Charlottesville rally where white nationalists chanted Jews will not replace us and a woman who protested, Heather Heyer, was killed.I am not suggesting Trump resembles Hitler. That should be obvious  but not so obvious that I will refrain from writing this column. The white nationalist mass murderer of Muslims in New Zealand was not out of his mind in seeing Trump as a symbol of renewed white identity and common purpose. Trumps love affair is with revanchist white people who dont like the demographic look of the 21st century.Throughout the world today, from Saudi Arabia to the Philippines, from Guatemala to North Korea, bad things happen because the Trump administration winks at them. The United States as moral guardian, however flawed, has vanished.Its not that Trump could be dangerous. He is dangerous. People die because the worst leaders know they enjoy the American presidents connivance. The debate on whether Trump is harmless, whether we should laugh away his grotesquerie, is misplaced. I have no doubt that the worst is yet to come. In his own mind, whatever the Mueller report contains, Trump cannot lose.Greenbaum and his wife moved to Southern California. A fisherman at Newport Pier, Greenbaum died in 1997. There was, as Philip Bump observed in The Washington Post, a brief mention of his passing in the local news.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Roger Cohen has been a columnist for The Times since 2009. His columns appear Wednesday and Saturday. He joined The Times in 1990, and has served as a foreign correspondent and foreign editor.  @NYTimesCohen Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Nicholas Fandos and Maggie HabermanWASHINGTON  Three newly empowered Democratic House committee chairmen, alarmed by statements over the weekend by President Trump about his former lawyers planned testimony before Congress, cautioned on Sunday that any effort to discourage or influence a witnesss testimony could be construed as a crime.The warning, a stark and unusual message from some of Congresss most influential Democrats, underscores the increasing legal and political peril facing Mr. Trump. Democrats are beginning their own investigations of him as the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, appears to move toward a conclusion in his investigation into the Trump campaigns ties to Russia and potential obstruction of justice by Mr. Trump.In a Fox News interview on Saturday night, Mr. Trump accused the former lawyer, Michael D. Cohen, of lying about him to win leniency from federal prosecutors and spoke cryptically of the existence of damaging information against Mr. Cohens father-in-law. Mr. Cohen, who has been sentenced to three years in prison, has accused Mr. Trump of directing him to make illegal hush payments during the campaign.Our nations laws prohibit efforts to discourage, intimidate or otherwise pressure a witness not to provide testimony to Congress, the chairmen wrote. The president should make no statement or take any action to obstruct Congresss independent oversight and investigative efforts, including by seeking to discourage any witness from testifying in response to a duly authorized request from Congress.The message seemed to imply that if Democrats in the House were to ever try to build an impeachment case against Mr. Trump, attempts to interfere with their work could be used as evidence.One of the chairmen who signed the letter, Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, who leads the Oversight and Reform Committee, announced last week that Mr. Cohen would testify publicly for the first time next month about his work on behalf of Mr. Trump. The hearing promises to be a blockbuster session that could further erode Mr. Trumps public image and clarify the extent of his legal exposure.In August, Mr. Cohen pleaded guilty in federal court in Manhattan to tax fraud, making false statements to a bank and a campaign finance violation. He later pleaded guilty  to an additional charge of lying to Congress about how long negotiations for a Trump Tower project in Moscow went on in 2016. He acknowledged that Mr. Trumps associates pursued the project well into 2016, as the Kremlin was escalating its efforts to interfere in the American election on his behalf.In court, he said Mr. Trump had directed him to arrange payments to two women during the 2016 campaign to stop them from speaking publicly about affairs they said they had with him. He worked closely alongside Mr. Trump during his time as a businessman and candidate, and has spent more than 70 hours with federal prosecutors in Manhattan as well as with Mr. Muellers team.As Mr. Trumps attacks on him have intensified, Mr. Cohen has told friends that he is worried for his safety, though no public evidence of any such threats has emerged.Mr. Trumps comments about Mr. Cohen on Saturday, made during a friendly interview with Jeanine Pirro of Fox News, were his first extended remarks on the matter since Mr. Cohens congressional testimony was announced. Asked by Ms. Pirro if he was worried about the testimony, Mr. Trump called Mr. Cohen weak and asserted  in contradiction to filings by federal prosecutors in Manhattan  that Mr. Cohen had no information on him.Hes in trouble on some loans and fraud and taxicabs and stuff that I know nothing about, Mr. Trump said. And in order to get his sentence reduced, he says, I have an idea, Ill tell  Ill give you some information on the president.Mr. Trump then implied that Mr. Cohen ought to be sharing information instead on his father-in-law, whose name he said he did not know.But he should give information maybe on his father-in-law, because thats the one that people want to look at, he said, adding, Thats the money in the family. Pressed by Ms. Pirro for more details, Mr. Trump said, I dont know, but youll find out, and youll look into it because nobody knows whats going on over there.Mr. Cohens father-in-law, Fima Shusterman, emigrated from Ukraine in 1975. The year before his daughters marriage to Mr. Cohen, he pleaded guilty to evading federal reporting requirements for large cash transactions, admitting that he had cashed $5.5 million worth of checks to evade disclosure laws. He was sentenced to probation after cooperating with prosecutors in a related case.Saturday was not the first time Mr. Trump has targeted Mr. Cohens family. After Mr. Cohen pleaded guilty to his crimes, the president said Mr. Cohen had done so only to save his wife and his father-in-law.As they prepared to indict him, prosecutors had signaled to Mr. Cohen that his wife could be implicated, since she had also signed his tax returns. That threat helped push Mr. Cohen to plead guilty to the charges, according to a person familiar with the events.Prosecutors have made no move toward his wife since Mr. Cohens guilty plea in August.The statement from the three chairmen was also signed by Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the chairman of the Intelligence Committee, and Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the Judiciary Committee chairman. Both men are investigating the president for various reasons, and Mr. Nadlers committee would be the body to weigh a possible impeachment.Mr. Nadler has said he will wait for Mr. Mueller to complete his work before seriously considering impeachment, but he told The New York Times last month that the campaign finance fraud laid out by prosecutors in New York was likely to meet the criteria for an impeachable offense and warranted congressional investigation.He has also issued repeated warnings about Mr. Trumps attacks on federal law enforcement officials, including Mr. Mueller.In 1974, the Judiciary Committee included obstruction of congressional investigations and proceedings among a litany of offenses for which it voted to impeach President Richard M. Nixon. He resigned from office before the full House voted on the impeachment articles.A previous version of this article misstated Mr. Cohens business relationship with his father-in-law. They were never business partners; Mr. Shusterman owned seven taxi medallion corporations.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Patricia MazzeiMIAMI  For 60 years, the lifeblood of Miamis idiosyncratic politics has been Cuba, the communist governments countless sins denounced in street protests, dissected on the spirited Spanish-language airwaves and condemned at campaign rallies under the unifying cry of Viva Cuba Libre!But the focus of this citys freedom-loving fervor has recently moved further south.Venezuela, not Cuba, now dominates Miamis political conversation. A television anchor not long ago ended a somber segment with a promise to keep praying for the troubled South American country. Venezuelans in the city have gathered for demonstrations to coincide with protests back home. Even the Miami-Dade County Commission, a local body with no control over foreign policy, voted unanimously to recognize the opposition leader Juan Guaid as Venezuelas interim president.The shift has been coming on gradually for years, but it has accelerated in recent weeks as Venezuela has sunk further into crisis and its leftist president, Nicols Maduro, has clung defiantly to power. The showdown in Caracas is reshaping Latino politics in South Florida, home to the highest concentration of Venezuelans in the United States.The change is not a mere demographic curiosity. In Florida, where major elections have repeatedly been decided by tiny margins, an inflection point around Venezuelas leadership could help define a generation of Venezuelan-American voters, who number in the tens of thousands in this state. President Trump is pushing Mr. Maduro to step aside, and if he succeeds, Democrats fear it could transform Venezuelan-Americans into loyal Republicans, much like Cuban-Americans.This could be Bay of Pigs 2.0, said Liz Alarcn, a Venezuelan-American Democrat, referring to the C.I.A.-backed invasion of Cuba in 1961 that failed to overthrow Fidel Castro. The raid turned into a disaster, in part because President John F. Kennedys government did not provide sufficient air support to the Cuban exiles who made up the bulk of the invading force  and Floridas Cuban community turned against both Mr. Kennedy and the Democratic Party.It is very dangerous territory for Democrats, State Senator Annette Taddeo of Miami, a Colombian-American and a Democrat, said of her partys handling of the Venezuela issue. Republicans are very smart about working on the margins. They know that a state like Florida is usually decided by 1 percent or less, so all they need are enough of the Venezuelans, enough of the Colombians, enough of the Puerto Ricans.The influx of Puerto Ricans to the Orlando and Miami areas after Hurricane Maria in 2017 prompted some political analysts to make grand predictions about how the new arrivals would turn Florida blue in the midterms. Those forecasts overestimated the rate at which Puerto Ricans actually voted, and underestimated how successful Republicans would be in campaigning to them.Christian Ulvert, a Democratic strategist, predicted that Venezuela policy  especially if the crisis continues to drag on  could become a key Florida question for presidential candidates in the 2020 election, as Puerto Rico was in the 2018 midterms.Foreign policy has always been deeply intertwined in the Florida political landscape and the outcome of elections, said Mr. Ulvert, who is Nicaraguan-American and married to a Venezuelan.In South Florida, protesters have publicly shamed former members of the Venezuelan government in restaurants and angrily chanted outside Goldman Sachs when the bank purchased deeply discounted Venezuelan bonds, extending a financial lifeline to Mr. Maduros administration.When Mr. Trump announced last month he was recognizing Mr. Guaid as Venezuelas interim leader, thousands of Venezuelans gathered in a park outside Miami to voice their support.Ms. Alarcn, 30, said her fellow Democrats have been slow to react to Republican overtures not only to Venezuelans but also to other Democratic-leaning Latinos who fled authoritarian governments. They were especially alarmed when three liberal members of Congress  Representatives Tulsi Gabbard of Hawaii, Ro Khanna of California and Ilhan Omar of Minnesota  recently criticized the White Houses recognition of Mr. Guaid and threats of more sanctions against Mr. Maduro.A U.S.-backed coup in Venezuela is not a solution to the dire issues they face, Ms. Omar wrote on Twitter, invoking a history of ill-received United States intervention against left-wing governments in Latin America during the Cold War years.But many Venezuelan exiles are exasperated to see Democrats opposed to intervening in the alarming humanitarian crisis in their country because of the lingering politics of the past. This is not a coup! Joanna Hausmann, a Venezuelan-American comedian in New York, declared in a video she filmed to explain the situation.What tends to happen with Venezuelans is people have no idea why were here, she said in an interview. Those who have fled the country, she said, are running from dictatorship, from lack of food.Ms. Hausmann, 29, whose uncle, a journalist, is under house arrest back home, said she was attacked on social media as a right-winger for agreeing with Mr. Trump on Venezuela policy, though she disagrees with him on most everything else.Im very disappointed in my liberal brethren, she said. Everything is distilled into, Oh, Trump, and the history of coups in Latin America. Its a completely different situation with a 25-year history.The potential problem for Democrats is that a few dissenting voices from the left challenging Mr. Trumps increasingly popular policy on Venezuela might be louder than the rest of the party, said Representative Mario Diaz-Balart of Miami, a Cuban-American Republican.Just like when weve had instances on the immigration issue where a small group of Republicans will say things and that becomes the Republican narrative on immigration, Democrats now have a similar  and serious  problem, he said in an interview.More top Democrats, including Speaker Nancy Pelosi and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., have thrown their support behind Mr. Guaid over the past few days.Mr. Trump has said he is open to all options on Venezuela, including military ones. No Miami politicians, Republican or Democrat, favor armed conflict, but they have espoused bipartisan support for the presidents other statements so far. In a rare moment of unity, Mr. Diaz-Balart and four Democratic lawmakers from Miami and Orlando have introduced bills to restrict arm sales to Mr. Maduros government, grant Venezuelan immigrants temporary protected status, and provide the country with humanitarian aid.This is very American, to support democracy, said Representative Donna Shalala, a Democrat.Senator Marco Rubio, a Cuban-American Republican who has played a central role in crafting the Trump administrations policy, said in an interview that critics from outside Florida who look at the issue through an old ideological prism often have an uninformed view of Venezuela: Their history on this issue is maybe a week old.He compared Miamis ties to Caracas, the Venezuelan capital that is just a three-hour plane ride away, to inseparable cities along the southwest border.The closest sort of analogy would be with border towns in Mexico, who are deeply dependent on cross-border trade, Mr. Rubio said. He recalled attending a family friends wedding in the Venezuelan city of Valencia when he was younger. You cant live in Miami without knowing people in Venezuela.Ernesto Ackerman, 69, a Venezuelan-American activist who came to the United States in 1989, long before Mr. Maduro and his predecessor, President Hugo Chvez, came into power, described the arrival of subsequent tides of Venezuelan immigrants.If the problem gets solved, said Mr. Ackerman, a Republican, a lot of people are going to go back.Both Republican and Democratic lawmakers insist that they back Venezuela action on principle, not as an electoral ploy. Yet Democrats saw politics at play this month when Vice President Mike Pence delivered a Venezuela policy speech in Doral  a Miami suburb known as Doralzuela  and did not invite Democratic members of Congress. Then, on Tuesday, Mr. Trump mentioned Venezuela in his State of the Union address and immediately pivoted to a campaign line that seemed to liken Venezuelas socialist government to liberals in the United States.Tonight, we renew our resolve that America will never be a socialist country, he said.During last years midterm elections, Ron DeSantis, the Republican nominee for governor, frequently deployed the word socialist against Mr. Gillum, his opponent. The jab, dismissed by Democrats as ridiculous, appeared to stick: Mr. DeSantis won. So did Rick Scott, a Republican who was elected to the Senate after  working hard to court Venezuelans, Puerto Ricans and other Latinos who typically vote for Democrats.Floridas Venezuelan community has a smattering of activists who are the heads of various organizations but no obvious leader  a reflection of an immigrant group still getting established, still up for grabs politically and still glued to the news from home, usually via Twitter posts or forwarded audio files on WhatsApp.Ive been sleeping maybe three hours a night, said Yusnaiberth Detraux, 44, who described spending hours online scouring for information until my eyes hurt.Ms. Detraux, who left Venezuela 12 years ago and became a United States citizen last year, said she had lost hope until Mr. Guaid came along, and the United States and its allies in the Western Hemisphere and Europe rallied behind him. Though she leans Republican, Ms. Detraux had not liked Mr. Trump at first. Then he delivered on his promised hard line on Venezuela.Thank God we have this president, she said. At least hes listened to us. Unfortunately, the previous administration did not.Follow Patricia Mazzei on Twitter: @PatriciaMazzei.Saul Martinez contributed reporting from Doral, Fla.Advertisement"
"Tom Brady, Meek Mill, Drew Bledsoe and Kenny Chesney on the man caught up in a scandal.Tom Brady and Robert Kraft at the Super Bowl in 2019.CreditCreditPhoto Illustration by The New York Times; Kevin C. Cox/Getty ImagesSupported byBy Katherine Rosman and Ken BelsonWhen you find yourself at 77 a billionaire six times over and an N.F.L. team owner practically running out of fingers for Super Bowl rings, there arent a ton of opportunities you havent already enjoyed. Private jets are your subways. Weekends with pals at $2,000-a-night island resorts are your backyard barbecues. The question what to do for kicks? becomes harder to answer.That may be why Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots, ended up on stage with Cardi B before Super Bowl LIII last month.Mr. Kraft was at the pregame party hosted by Michael G. Rubin, the 46-year-old owner of Fanatics, the online sports merchandise company, and an owner of the Philadelphia 76ers.Cardi B was performing Money. (It goes: I like boardin jets, I like mornin sex, but nothing in this world that I like more than checks.) Get out there and dance, said Meek Mill, just off the stage, to Mr. Rubin and Mr. Kraft.Mr. Rubin backed away. But Mr. Kraft, dressed in black and his signature Nike Air Force One sneakers, began to bust out some steps.He was moving more than I thought he could move, Meek Mill said later. The video spread around the web.It was about three weeks later, though, that news about Mr. Kraft really went viral. On Feb. 22, Mr. Kraft was charged with two misdemeanor counts of soliciting sex at a massage parlor in Jupiter, Fla. He pleaded not guilty.[Read more: Despite charges, Trump wants Robert Kraft at Super Bowl celebration.]On Tuesday, prosecutors made an offer to Mr. Kraft and 24 other men facing charges: a fine and community service in return for admitting that if their cases were to go to trial, the prosecutors would win.And on Wednesday, lawyers for Mr. Kraft and 14 other men filed a motion to prevent evidence in the case from being made public, including hidden camera video of the men at the massage parlor. As of Friday, Mr. Kraft, who declined to comment for this article, refused to sign the proposed deal.And on Saturday, he released a statement. I am truly sorry. I know I have hurt and disappointed my family, my close friends, my co-workers, our fans and many others who rightfully hold me to a higher standard, it said, in part. Throughout my life, I have always tried to do the right thing. The last thing I would ever want to do is disrespect another human being. I have extraordinary respect for women; my morals and my soul were shaped by the most wonderful woman, the love of my life, who I was blessed to have as my partner for 50 years.The Kraft camp is very sensitive to the inferences that Mr. Krafts solicitation charges have anything to do with what prosecutors say is a larger investigation into sex trafficking. All told, dozens of men have been charged with soliciting prostitution.We have looked into it, weve looked at the charges brought, looked at the evidence, and there is zero evidence of human trafficking, said William Burck, one of his attorneys.The operators of the Jupiter spa have not been charged with sex trafficking; the women Mr. Kraft is accused of soliciting are 45 and 58 years old and are licensed massage therapists.Another woman, who ran a spa in Vero Beach, has been charged with trafficking, and the investigation continues, as does a conversation about the role of men seeking sex for money in the trafficking economy.And Mr. Krafts name continues to propel the conversation about that investigation. It makes my skin crawl to see him being smeared this way, said Drew Bledsoe, the former Patriots quarterback.While Mr. Bledsoe and others who are sympathetic to Mr. Kraft say prosecutors are using the solicitation charges against him largely to publicize their broader investigation, it remains true that the sex trade often exploits women who have few or no means to escape it.As his lawyers fight the case, Mr. Kraft has been described by friends as conflicted. He is angry about what he did and ashamed of the embarrassment he has caused, yet insistent that he did nothing illegal and is defiant enough to hire a very expensive legal team to battle charges that most people settle quickly. Several people interviewed for this article say he continues, a month after the case became public, to break down in tears when discussing the situation.Casual friends of Mr. Kraft think the public reaction is overblown. I can understand someone being 77 and going to a massage parlor, said Larry King, 85. Hes an older man who finds himself with a need and he gets that need satisfied. Why do we care?Much of the fascination with this case stems from an as-yet unanswered question: Why was a gazillionaire going to a random strip mall massage parlor anyway?And the attendant tabloid headlines are a consequence of Mr. Krafts fame and wealth. Here is one of the richest men in the country  a pal of President Trump and the owner of a dominant football team  charged with a seedy offense.Now he must face the group he may care about as much as his family: his fellow N.F.L. team owners, who will gather starting Sunday at the Biltmore hotel in Phoenix for their annual meeting. Last year the talk there surrounded Colin Kaepernick and players kneeling during the national anthem. This year, the chatter will be about what penalty the league may impose upon Mr. Kraft for conduct detrimental to the league  code for making the owners look bad.Friends and colleagues in Mr. Krafts inner circle say that his current legal problems reveal his continuing struggle to recalibrate in the aftermath of the 2011 death of that love of my life  his wife, Myra. They married in 1963, when he was 22 and about to enroll in Harvard Business School and she was 21, going into her senior year at Brandeis University. They were married for 48 years when Mrs. Kraft died of ovarian cancer.Bobby was so devastated when Myra died, said Steven J. Comen, who has known Mr. Kraft since they were in kindergarten. It took him a long time to get his bearings. If you can imagine becoming married when they were kids, and having kids when they essentially were still kids, and having the partnership to build something that was so spectacular  and her going through such a long period of suffering and then dying  well, it would have been devastating to anyone.This wasnt a situation where Mr. Kraft took care of the business and Mrs. Kraft saw to the home life, said Tom Brady, the Patriots quarterback for 19 years, who called from a family vacation to talk about his closeness with RKK and the Kraft family.I remember bringing my oldest son, Jack, in to her office and her playing with him on the floor, with blocks and Legos, Mr. Brady said. She was very influential in my life and in many players lives. She was the mother of four sons, so she knew what it was like being around boys.Mr. Kraft has had one serious girlfriend in the intervening years. He met Ricki Noel Lander, now 39, in 2012 at a party hosted by Steve Tisch, an owner of the New York Giants. They have gone through very public phases, like attending a New York City Ballet gala for which Ms. Lander served as a chair, along with Sarah Jessica Parker, in 2016, and she appeared on the field with him after Super Bowl wins, including after the most recent one. They also have maintained separate lives. In 2017, Ms. Lander became a mother to a baby girl. The Patriots released a statement that said, While Robert Kraft is not the biological father, he is thrilled with Rickis blessing of having a healthy child. (Attempts to reach Ms. Lander were unsuccessful.)Public and private reaction to Mr. Krafts most recent newsworthiness is complicated. Most of his fellow N.F.L. owners are reluctant to speak publicly about his crisis.But his fight against a relatively minor charge, using high-priced lawyers, is evidence of his sense of self-importance, possibly prolonging the media attention, according to at least one person familiar with that world. The problem with Kraft is the problem with famous people, which is you bring famous attorneys and think they will do a better job, said Hugh Culverhouse Jr., a former prosecutor and lawyer in Florida and son of the former owner of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. Its like going to a knife fight with the entire Seventh Army.Some politicians, including Senator Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, said they intend to give the campaign donations they received from Mr. Kraft to groups focused on ending human trafficking, according to The Boston Globe. A group of survivors of sexual exploitation are planning to send a letter to the N.F.L. to ask that Mr. Kraft be barred from owning a team.These days, Mr. Kraft is leaning heavily on one of his closest friends, Mr. Rubin, 30 years his junior. Like Mr. Kraft, Mr. Rubin is a billionaire who is branching into professional sports ownership.We talk on the phone five times a day, said Mr. Rubin in an interview at the Fanatics office in New York. (Actually, he and Mr. Kraft like to FaceTime each other.)They were set up on a friend date in 2012 by Mr. Krafts oldest son, Jonathan Kraft, the president of the Kraft Group and the New England Patriots. Mr. Rubin was divorced, and so they were two single men with 10-digit bank accounts. Ill go as his date to events, hell come as my date, Mr. Rubin said. My girlfriend is jealous. Shell say, I wish you talked to me the way you talk to Robert.In Charlotte, N.C., during last months N.B.A. All-Star weekend, Mr. Rubin chatted with an N.B.A. employee who revealed that he was a die-hard Patriots fan. So I FaceTime Robert, Mr. Rubin said, hes got his shirt off, hes in bed. I say to the kid, Say hi to Robert, and then I leave the phone.Mr. Rubin is trying to keep Mr. Kraft hip to pop culture, but some references get lost. In February, Mr. Rubin was at a 76ers game with the actress Emily Ratajkowski and her husband, Sebastian Bear-McClard, a producer, and Josh Ostrovsky, the Instagram personality known as the Fat Jew. Mr. Rubin FaceTimed Mr. Kraft and introduced him to Mr. Ostrovsky. Mr. Kraft was perplexed. What do you mean hes a fat Jew? he said. Mr. Kraft and Meek Mill first bonded through Mr. Rubin during a guys weekend in Miami to attend the 2017 Major League Baseball All-Star Game.I am from the ghettos of America, and he is one of the most powerful billionaires, said Meek Mill of Mr. Kraft. He is more down-to-earth and relatable than I expected him to be. After the Patriots won their sixth Super Bowl, in February, Meek Mill gave Mr. Kraft his $200,000 diamond-encrusted necklace that spells out Championships, the title of his recent album. Mr. Kraft wore it during the victory parade. My chain is like my Super Bowl trophy for rising above poverty and overcoming the system, Meek Mill said. I said to him, I wear this chain every day. Its my gift to you.Meek Mill said he had spoken to Mr. Kraft probably 30 times since the massage parlor scandal broke. In 2017, Meek Mill, now 31, was sentenced to two to four years in prison for violating his parole. (Meek Mill pleaded not guilty to the initial incident, when he was 19, and said if he had done what he was accused of, he would be dead. Everyone knows what happens to a black kid that points a gun at police officers, he said.)Meek Mills friends, including Mr. Kraft, talked to him frequently while he was in prison and were outraged by his situation. Mr. Kraft visited him in prison a year ago and spoke to the press about injustice afterward.The N.F.L.s inner circle is dominated by billionaires who lean to the right. Despite his friendship with Mr. Trump, Mr. Kraft is considered one of the more liberal owners, backing an array of progressive causes and voting Democratic more often than not.He is one of the biggest faces in America, and this is a smart guy saying to the world, This is a good kid. Meek Mill said. It was a big deal for me.After Meek Mill was released, Mr. Rubin asked Mr. Kraft to join his efforts to create an organization called Reform Alliance, to fight for changes to criminal justice practices. The eight founders, including Jay-Z and Daniel Loeb, a billionaire investor, pledged a combined $50 million.Meek Mill sees echoes of his experiences in Mr. Krafts current predicament. They aligned his name with a different set of charges that werent tied to him at all, he said.There are big differences, and Meek Mill has made sure Mr. Kraft appreciates them too. I said it to Robert the other day, Someone as powerful as you, you have done so much good in the world and brung so much to America, you see what they did to you, Meek Mill said. I said to him, Imagine someone that comes from poverty in the ghetto who doesnt have people to speak up for them on their behalf. It happens in my community every day.Mr. Kraft grew up in Brookline, Mass., loving sports, though joining teams was difficult because he couldnt play on the Sabbath. He liked the Boston Braves baseball team.He went to college at Columbia, on scholarship. As a senior, he went back to Boston for a football game and spotted Myra Hiatt in a delicatessen. He waited until her date went to the restroom and then introduced himself. He went to the library on the Brandeis campus the next day to look her up, and they married the following year.Myra finished college, and they had four sons; three work for the family business. After attending Harvard Business School, Mr. Kraft went to work for his father-in-law. Mr. Kraft had his own vision for the company, and left but eventually purchased the business and began to build a fortune in paper and packaging. As he did, he and Mrs. Kraft established themselves as a power couple in Bostons charity scene. The family has given away hundreds of millions of dollars, a Patriots spokesman said.Foundations backed by Mr. Kraft are known to make unexpected calls to small organizations in which Mr. Kraft pledges a gift ranging from $100,000 to a few million dollars, urging the nonprofit group to create donor-match campaigns.A few years ago, Lisa Goldblatt Grace, a founder of My Life My Choice, received such a call, from an executive at the Patriots Foundation. The mission of My Life My Choice is to support young survivors of sexual exploitation and the commercial sex industry. The foundation gave the group $100,000, with a matching incentive. The money allowed the group to hire another mentor, Ms. Grace said.We were heartbroken when we heard the news that Robert Kraft had been charged, Ms. Grace said. The most important thing we can do is focus on the victims and shine a light that helps people to understand that this is a multi-billion-dollar industry that preys on the most vulnerable.In 1994, Mr. Kraft paid $172 million for the Patriots, at the time the largest sum paid for a professional sports franchise. Mr. Kraft and his son Jonathan flew back from the meeting to Boston (middle seats in coach on T.W.A.) to tell Mrs. Kraft the deal was done. She was worried that the high price tag would make it difficult for the family to continue its philanthropy. Mr. Kraft promised her that owning an N.F.L. team would give them an even larger platform to support their causes.The next night, Mrs. Kraft overheard her husband on the phone with the head coach, Bill Parcells. Mr. Parcells said he needed $10 million for a contract to sign a player.She was not happy. The summer house better be in my name, she told him.The investment turned out to be beyond sound. In 2000 Mr. Kraft lured Bill Belichick away from the Patriots division rival New York Jets. The next year, Mr. Brady became the teams starting quarterback, and the Patriots raced all the way to their first Super Bowl win.The Belichick-Brady tandem has shattered records ever since. Forbes estimates that the Patriots are the second-most-valuable N.F.L. franchise, worth an estimated $3.8 billion.The teams success has also burnished Mr. Krafts status inside the N.F.L., where owners can be hypercompetitive and jealous. By most accounts, Mr. Kraft has become the leagues most influential owner, with seats on the powerful broadcasting, labor and finance committees. His contacts in media circles make him indispensable during negotiations with the television networks that provide the bulk of the leagues income. One owner said that these multi-billion-dollar deals are typically negotiated by three people: the N.F.L. commissioner, Roger Goodell; Brian Rolapp, the leagues media chief; and Mr. Kraft.Now, amid what friends describe as Mr. Krafts unyielding anguish over his travails and the uncertainties he is confronting in the legal system, the N.F.L. and the court of public opinion, Mr. Krafts BFFs are rallying around him, and are eager to discuss the depth of their respect.Despite the solicitation charges, Mr. Trump has said he wants Mr. Kraft to attend a White House reception celebrating the Patriots recent Super Bowl victory.Mr. Brady is also standing by his longtime friend. Ive been with the organization 19 years and Ive been through a lot, Mr. Brady said. He has been by me and supported me. Thats hard to do these days  to have longtime relationships like we do is a challenge. Mr. Bledsoe, the former Patriots quarterback, said that even in the 18 years since he left the team, he still answers his mobile phone when the caller ID says BLOCKED, in case its Mr. Kraft, whom he calls RKK. RKK has achieved success on a scale that few people ever achieved and kept his soul intact all the way through, said Mr. Bledsoe, now a winemaker in Walla Walla, Wash. On a golf outing a few years ago, Mr. Bledsoe asked Mr. Kraft to tell him the one thing that matters most in building a successful organization. There is no one thing, Mr. Bledsoe said he said. There are no small details.Kenny Chesney, the country music star, said: Robert has become in many ways a very strong mentor in my life. He believes that music and sports bring people together like nothing else.Fifteen years ago, Mr. Chesney was dreaming of performing concerts in N.F.L. stadiums, which hold three to four times more fans than other large arenas. Robert was the first N.F.L. owner to take a chance on a guy from East Tennessee, Mr. Chesney said. He has played Gillette Stadium, home of the Patriots, in Foxborough, Mass., 19 times, more than any other musical artist. He has lunch with Mr. Kraft in his office each time he plays there.He set me on a path and helped me see a blueprint for how to change the scale of my business and the scope of my touring life, Mr. Chesney said.Mr. Kraft has made only a few public appearances since he was charged, including at parties hosted by fellow billionaires Ron Perelman and Barry Diller on Oscar weekend in Los Angeles.Mr. Rubin called Mr. Kraft and urged him to come to Philadelphia for Meek Mills first hometown solo concert since being released from prison last year. On March 15, Mr. Kraft hung out backstage while Meek Mill performed at the Met Philadelphia, a recently refurbished opera house. Mr. Kraft spent much of his time palling around with Meek Mills son and his sons half brother.Inevitably, the chatter between Mr. Kraft and the kids turned to football. So Mr. Kraft pulled out his phone and performed his favorite party trick: He FaceTimed Tom Brady and handed the phone to the boys. Ken Belson covers the N.F.L. He joined the Sports section in 2009 after stints in Metro and Business. From 2001 to 2004, he wrote about Japan in the Tokyo bureau.  KatherineRosman is a features reporter. She covers media, social media and celebrity  and the way in which they intersect and collide. She joined The Times in 2014.  @katierosman Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byCan the Constitution withstand the partisans?By David BrooksOpinion ColumnistIn Willa Cathers novel My Antonia, there are two kind Russian farmers named Peter and Pavel who have settled on the Nebraska prairie. On his death bed, Pavel tells the story of how they came to emigrate there.Many years before, back in Russia, the two young men had been the groomsmen at a friends wedding. The party went on well after midnight and eventually a caravan of seven sledges carried the families through the snow, back to where they were staying. As they rode, faint streaks of shadow  hundreds of them  could be seen dashing through the trees along the trail. Suddenly, the howling of wolves erupted from all directions.The horses took off and the wolves attacked. The rear sledge hit a clump and overturned. The shrieks were horrific as the wolves pounced on their human prey. Another sledge tipped and then another, and the swarms of wolves descended on the families.Pavel and Peter were in the lead sledge, carrying the bride and groom. They were careening at top speed, but one of their horses was now near death with exhaustion. Pavel turned to the groom. They would have to lighten their load. He pointed to the bride. The groom refused to let her be tossed over. Pavel fought with him and tried to rip her away. In the scuffle he threw them both out and to the wolves.Peter and Pavel survived  but lived in infamy. They were the monsters who had thrown a bride to the wolves. They were forced to flee to the New World.The story reminds us how thin the crust of civilization really is. It reminds us of what otherwise good people are capable at moments of severe stress and crisis, when fear is up and when conflict  red in tooth and claw  takes control.Its an especially good story to tell as we enter 2019, because this looks to be the year of the wolves  the year when savage and previously unimaginable things might happen.It will be a year of divided government and unprecedented partisan conflict. It will be a year in which Donald Trump is isolated and unrestrained as never before. And it will be in this atmosphere that indictments will fall, provoking not just a political crisis but a constitutional one.There are now over a dozen investigations into Trumps various scandals. If we lived in a healthy society, the ensuing indictments would be handled in a serious way  somber congressional hearings, dispassionate court proceedings. Everybody would step back and be sobered by the fact that our very system of law is at stake.But we dont live in a healthy society and we dont have a healthy president.Trump doesnt recognize, understand or respect institutional authority. He only understands personal power. He sees every conflict as a personal conflict in which he destroys or gets destroyed.When the indictments come down, Trump wont play by the rules. Hell seek to delegitimize those rules. Hell seek to delegitimize our legal institutions. Hell personalize every indictment, slander every prosecutor. Hell seek to destroy the edifice of law in order to save himself.We know the language hell use. It will be the anti-establishment, anti-institutional language that has been coursing through the left and right for the past few decades: The establishment is corrupt, the game is rigged, the elites are out to get you.At that point congressional leaders will face the defining choice of their careers: Where does their ultimate loyalty lie, to the Constitution or to their party?If their loyalty is to the Constitution, they will step back and figure out, in a bipartisan way, how to hold the sort of hearings that Congress held during the Watergate scandal  hearings that inspired trust in the system. They will step back and find men and women of integrity  the modern versions of Archibald Cox, Elliot Richardson and Judge John Sirica  who would work to restore decency amid the moral rot.On the other hand, if they put party above nation, they will see this crisis as just another episode in our long-running political circus. Theyll fall back in partisan lines. Theyll hurl abuse. Their primary concern will be: How can this help me in 2020?If that happens, then the roughly 40 percent of Americans who support Trump will see serious evidence that he committed felonies, but they wont care! Theyll conclude that this is not about law or integrity. Its just a political show trial. Theyll see there is no higher authority that all Americans are accountable to. Its just power and popularity straight through.If that happens, well have to face the fact that our Constitution and system of law were not strong enough to withstand the partisan furies that now define our politics. Well have to face the fact that America has become another fragile state  a kakistocracy, where laws are passed and broken without consequence, where good people lay low and where wolves are left free to prey on the weak.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Brooks has been a columnist with The Times since 2003. He is the author of The Road to Character and the forthcoming book, The Second Mountain.  @nytdavidbrooks Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Glenn Thrush and Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON  Democrats filed into the House chamber on Thursday  depleted and punch drunk  to vote for an overstuffed resolution condemning prejudice  and end, or so they hoped, a week of infighting that vividly illustrated the perils of policing their own speech.I hope this puts an end to all of this, said Representative Robin Kelly, Democrat of Illinois, moments before the measure, which condemned anti-Semitism and virtually every other form of bigotry, passed with unanimous Democratic support.It almost certainly will not. The measure, which began as a rebuke to Representative Ilhan Omar, Democrat of Minnesota and a freshman lawmaker, and ended as a catchall declaration of tolerance that did not mention her by name, seemed to satisfy no one. Ultimately, the wrenching intraparty fight left unanswered a question that transcends partisan politics: In an era of shouting and provocation, how should Congress respond when its members say hateful or hurtful things?Ms. Omar, who suggested that pro-Israel activists were pushing an allegiance to a foreign country, is hardly the first member of Congress to make offensive remarks. Representative Steve King, Republican of Iowa, spent more than a decade making bigoted comments  he once said Mexicans had calves the size of cantaloupes from running drugs across the border  before he was stripped of his committee assignments after he wondered aloud why the term white supremacy was considered offensive.Plenty of others have skated up to the edge of racism and anti-Semitism with no consequence. Representative Andy Biggs, Republican of Arizona who branded Ms. Omar an anti-Semite, raised eyebrows in 2016 when he charged that the Jewish philanthropist George Soros was buying a local election for county attorney. Representative Louie Gohmert, Republican of Texas, complained bitterly that last weeks anti-Semitism resolution had been watered down, just a few months after he accused Mr. Soros of collaborating with the Nazis during World War II. Patrick Gaspard, the president of Mr. Soross Open Society Foundations, demanded Mr. Gohmert apologize for the disturbing and false anti-Semitic slur.[Read also: Why Some Republicans Voted Against the Antibigotry Resolution.]While Republicans did rebuke Mr. King and occasionally criticize President Trumps language  such as when he said there were very fine people on both sides of the white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Va.  rarely have they engaged in the kind of public soul-searching Democrats undertook last week. Now many Democrats worry they have set a new standard, creating a precedent that mandates a major response every time a member transgresses rules of rhetorical decorum that are ill-defined and subject to dispute.We have to be careful, said Ms. Kelly, a member of the Congressional Black Caucus, which fought to blunt criticism of Ms. Omar. She was elected just like I was, and she has the right to say what she believes, just as I do.Then there is the question of what happens if there is a next time. Some Jewish groups are already demanding that Ms. Omar be stripped of her seat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee  a step Democratic leaders have thus far been loath to take.Thats the real question: what if this happens again? What are we going to do? asked Representative Josh Gottheimer, Democrat of New Jersey, who was among those pushing strongly for a resolution focused solely on anti-Semitism.There are virtually no rules governing a House members right to say whatever they please outside of the parliamentary regulations covering proceedings on the floor and in committees. The first article of the official code of conduct of members, enforced by the Committee on Ethics, contains only a broad declaration, that, A member, delegate, resident commissioner, officer or employee of the House shall behave at all times in a manner that shall reflect creditably on the House.Punishing members for what they say, either through formal or informal channels, has been relatively rare since the 19th century, and representatives are far more likely to face a meaningful backlash by bucking leadership politically than for anything else they say.We cant police everybodys speech, but there is a line, said a visibly upset Representative Lois Frankel, a Democrat who represents a heavily Jewish district in Florida. She said Ms. Omar had crossed that line  intentionally or not  by criticizing the motives of Israels supporters instead of the policies of the Israeli government. That left a blemish on a party that prides itself on inclusion.The King thing seemed like an easy call, Representative Ral M. Grijalva, Democrat of Arizona, said of Mr. Kings punishment. Have we set a precedent that we now have to live with? Its hard to know. But we cant keep doing this. We cant stay on the seesaw.Ms. Omar, 36, one of the first two Muslim women elected to Congress, fled war-torn Somalia when she was a child and spent four years in a refugee camp in Kenya. She has been fending off accusations of anti-Semitism for weeks; before last weeks uproar, Democratic leaders forced her to apologize for a comment she made in February, when she said support for Israel was all about the Benjamins, baby  a reference to $100 bills. Democratic leaders came down hard on her, and in her apology, she expressed gratitude to Jewish allies and colleagues who are educating me on the painful history of anti-Semitic tropes.So when she told a gathering of liberals that pro-Israel activists were pushing for allegiance to a foreign country, leading Jewish Democrats were furious. Representative Eliot L. Engel of New York, the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee  who had already warned Ms. Omar that such comments would not be swept under the rug  issued a statement calling her words a vile anti-Semitic slur that had no place in the Foreign Affairs Committee  an indication, many felt, that she was in danger of losing her seat.Instead, Mr. Engel and other top Democrats settled on a resolution condemning anti-Semitism; at first they wanted to name Ms. Omar. But their plan went awry amid pushback from progressives and members of the black caucus, who noted that Ms. Omar herself was recently the target of anti-Muslim bigotry in West Virginia, where a poster linked her to the Sept. 11 attacks.By Tuesday evening, Speaker Nancy Pelosi  who insisted that Ms. Omar not be named and who wanted a broader resolution  had stepped in, telling her members the resolution would be amended to include anti-Muslim bias; eventually, it was expanded to include a condemnation of all forms of bigotry.Mr. King abstained from the vote, and 23 Republicans voted against the resolution, most of them deeming it a show vote. Some said Democrats should have handled Ms. Omar the way Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the Republican leader, handled Mr. King, by stripping her of her committee assignments.Representative Zoe Lofgren, Democrat of California, who has served in the House for a quarter-century, said there was no comparison between Ms. Omars situation and Mr. Kings transgressions. In June, when Mr. King retweeted a Nazi sympathizer, Republican leaders and fellow Republicans said nothing. Only after he secured his seat after his toughest re-election bid did they act.They put up with his outrageous comments for more than a decade, and they only took action because they thought it would damage the Republican brand, she said.Several Democratic members privately questioned Ms. Pelosis decision to bring up the resolution at all, arguing the matter should have been dealt with in private to avoid a messy and distracting public debate. Others likened the internal debate over the resolution to a weeklong family therapy session, a painful but necessary airing of grievances.That is the silver lining, said Representative Hank Johnson, Democrat of Georgia, who came to power in 2007 after defeating a fellow Democrat who had also been accused of anti-Semitism. We need to talk about things like this.Representative Jamie Raskin, Democrat of Maryland and an author of the antibigotry resolution, said Ms. Pelosi had established guidelines for future behavior.If we dont stand on principles and values were going to be chasing every legislator in Congress around and proofreading their remarks, he said. In a seeming warning to Ms. Omar, he added, And we expect everybody to live up to the high standards we set out.Democrats say they do not have the luxury of ignoring bigotry. With Ms. Omar, they are appealing to her own sense of responsibility to the party, and offering their own experience as a guide on how to move forward.In 2010, Mr. Grijalva called on tourists and conventioneers to boycott his home state of Arizona after Republicans passed a restrictive immigration law. He was hit with a backlash that taught him to temper his tongue.It was a nightmare, he said. I felt like I was in a tunnel and couldnt get out. But you learn. There is a muddy line between candor and civility  and civility is important around here. Whether you really mean it or not, thats another question.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Alexis SoloskiOur guide to plays and musicals coming to New York stages and a few last-chance picks of shows that are about to close. Our reviews of open shows are at nytimes.com/reviews/theater.AINT NO MO at the Public Theater (in previews; opens on March 27). When Donald J. Trump was elected president, a lot of people talked about fleeing to Canada or elsewhere. Few made good on it. But Jordan E. Coopers play imagines a world where black Americans prepare to depart en masse. Stevie Walker-Webb directs a satire in which black lives mobilize. 212-967-7555, publictheater.orgHADESTOWN at the Walter Kerr Theater (previews start on March 22; opens on April 17). Directed by Rachel Chavkin, Anas Mitchells swooning folk opera, which retells the myth of Orpheus and Eurydice, descends on Broadway. When the musical first ran Off Broadway, The Times wrote that Mitchells lovely music and well-turned lyrics are tightly bound together. Reeve Carney and Eva Noblezada star. 877-250-2929, hadestown.comJULIUS CAESAR at the Polonsky Shakespeare Center (in previews; opens on March 28). Shakespeares tragedy arrives Off Broadway at Theater for a New Audience. The director Shana Cooper approaches the play, which she first staged at the Oregon Shakespeare Festival in 2017, as a resonant political thriller. Rocco Sisto is Caesar, and Brandon J. Dirden is Brutus. 866-811-4111, tfana.orgTHE LEHMAN TRILOGY at the Park Avenue Armory (previews start on March 22; opens on March 27). A staggering collapse, a theatrical resurgence. Written by Stefano Massini, adapted by Ben Power and directed by Sam Mendes, this history of Lehman Brothers from its beginnings to its bankruptcy comes to New York. When he saw the three-man show in London, Ben Brantley praised its exceptional concentration of narrative simplicity and depth, in which minimal resources seem to expand into unlimited riches. 212-933-5812, armoryonpark.orgMARJANA AND THE FORTY THIEVES at the Doxsee (previews start on March 28; opens on April 1). Maybe you know a certain story with the name Ali Baba attached to it, but this Target Margin show, directed by David Herskovits, approaches The One Thousand and One Nights from another angle, focusing on a wily servant girl. The cast includes Caitlin Nasema Cassidy, Sophie Laruelle, Anthony Vaughn Merchant, Anish Roy and Isuri Wijesundara. 212-352-3101, targetmargin.org[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]MRS. MURRAYS MENAGERIE at Greenwich House Theater (previews start on March 26; opens on April 8). The Mad Ones, creators of some of the richest and most carefully observed devised theater, make a show about making a show. This latest play centers on a 1970s childrens television program, with Phillip James Brannon, Brad Heberlee, Carmen M. Herlihy and January LaVoy joining Mad Ones regulars. Lila Neugebauer directs. arsnovanyc.comANASTASIA at the Broadhurst Theater (closes on March 31). This Broadway musical, about a possible heir to the Russian throne, takes just a few more journeys into the past. With Christy Altomare in the starring role, a book by Terrence McNally and songs by Lynn Ahrens and Stephen Flaherty, this adaptation of two 20th Century Fox films trembles nonstop with internal conflicts during its drawn-out two-and-a-half hours, Ben Brantley wrote. 212-239-6200, anastasiathemusical.comBOESMAN AND LENA at the Pershing Square Signature Center (closes on March 24). Athol Fugards apartheid-era drama, staged by the South African director Yal Farber, treks toward its final performance. Jesse Green argues that the play, about a common-law couple in search of shelter, has metamorphosed into an existential drama, reshaped perhaps by Zainab Jah and Sahr Ngaujahs admirable, uncompromising performances. 212-244-7529, signaturetheatre.orgGLORIA at the Daryl Roth Theater (closes on March 31). Audiences have two more weeks to acknowledge the equality and full humanity of women as this biographical play centered on Gloria Steinem draws to a close Off Broadway. Directed by Diane Paulus and now starring Patricia Kalember, the show concludes with a talking circle, which on the night Jesse Green saw it, took the raw materials of the play and turned them into thrilling community drama. gloriatheplay.comHURRICANE DIANE at New York Theater Workshop (closes on March 24). Madeleine Georges untamed skewering of Euripidess The Bacchae, reset in a suburban cul-de-sac, finishes its run. This tragicomedy about climate change and landscape architecture, directed by Leigh Silverman, stars the inimitable Becca Blackwell as a butch gardener. Jesse Green wrote that Dionysuss nonbinary energy, as delivered by the nonbinary Blackwell, unleashes something wild in the play. 212-460-5475, nytw.orgSEA WALL/A LIFE at the Public Theater (closes on March 31). The men in sweaters in these twinned one-acts will soon stop wrestling with existence. Tom Sturridge stars in Simon Stephens play, while Jake Gyllenhaal delivers Nick Paynes monologue. Carrie Cracknell directs both. According to Jesse Green, the performances give you plenty to ponder in showing how we now read life, with or without fate, as everyones tragedy. 212-967-7555, publictheater.orgSUICIDE FOREST at the Bushwick Starr (closes on March 23). Kristine Haruna Lees absurdist drama wraps up in Brooklyn. Directed by Aya Ogawa, it intertwines the lives of a suicidal salaryman and an abused schoolgirl with Lees own family history. Laura Collins-Hughes wrote that, for Lee, this play is an exorcism. But it is also an embrace. thebushwickstarr.orgAdvertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byIts for the good of the country. Especially our kids.By Dan SavageMr. Savage is a nationally syndicated sex advice columnist.Dear Jeff Bezos,I know youve been through a lot in the past few weeks, but I have one more request: Release those pics.I say this as an Amazon stockholder, an Amazon Prime member and a fellow parent. Publish that below the belt selfie before The National Enquirer can leak it to TMZ. And while youre at it, toss up a half a dozen other pics the tabloid hasnt even seen.If in my position I cant stand up to this kind of extortion, you wrote on Medium, how many people can? By standing up to blackmail  by refusing to be ashamed  you turned the tables on the bullies at The National Enquirer. And people cheered! For a billionaire! Poor Howard Schultz must have been seething.By all rights you shouldve spent last week being dragged for the news that Amazon is stealing tips from delivery drivers, as revealed in a Los Angeles Times investigation published the same day as your Medium post. Instead you were heaped with praise on Twitter  Twitter!  for standing up to David Pecker, the chairman and chief executive of American Media, who, as publisher of The National Enquirer, did more to put Donald Trump in the White House than perhaps anyone other than Vladimir Putin.Standing up to Pecker was a great start. But by self-publishing your own nude photos, you can turn the tables on the sexual and cultural hypocrisy that allows people like him to weaponize nude photos in the first place.If I know one thing, having written a sex-and-relationship advice column for the last few decades, Jeff, its this: Weve all taken and sent photos like the ones you sent your girlfriend. O.K., not everyone. But many of us. And many more of us every day.After years of hearing about the dangers of youth sexting, researchers at Drexel University set out in 2015 to find how common the practice is among adults. And after interviewing 870 people, ranging in age from 18 to 82, they discovered that sexting is more common than generally thought, as the American Psychological Association primly observed. Fully 88 percent of adults reported swapping sext messages at least once; 82 percent had sexted with someone in the last year. Far from being a threat to our relationships, sexting correlated strongly with greater sexual satisfaction, especially for those in a relationship.Were all carrying little pornography studios around with us in our pockets. And while many of us just use our words, a lot of us  young and old, gay and straight, anything and everything else  send sexy selfies too. We use our phones to flirt with established partners we hope we can trust (sometimes wrongly; vengeful exes are why we have revenge porn laws). We use them to flirt with complete strangers. And, yes, some of us misuse our phones by sending unsolicited dirty pics to people who never asked to see them.Its only going to get worse (or better, depending on your perspective) as were rapidly establishing new and welcome cultural norms about hitting on people. Its increasingly unacceptable to hit on someone at work or in a classroom or on the street. So we do it online. We swipe left or right and start swapping texts with a stranger. The conversation quickly progresses from flirty to dirty and, before we know it, were exchanging nudes with that stranger.We live in a world where two things are true: Nearly everyone has a few nude photographs out there somewhere (saved on a strangers phone; archived on a dating app you forgot you signed up for; lingering on some tech companys servers). And yet a single solicited dirty pic has the power to end someones career. Lets end this ridiculous state of affairs.Jeff, you have the power to make the world safer for your kids and mine, to say nothing of all the adults out there swapping nude photos with complete strangers or their spouses. (And to say nothing of all the other billionaires out there who, according to Bloomberg News, are now very worried about the whereabouts of the pics theyve sent to their mistresses.) By releasing your own photos, you can normalize what is already normal and protect the professional and political futures of all the young adults who have been taking and sending nude selfies since they got their first phones.The sooner we all have a few dirty pics out there, the sooner it wont matter whose dirty pics get out there. Until then, we are all in danger of being blackmailed.Sure, I could go first and release a few of my own. But the dirty pics a gay sex-advice columnist sent to his husband dont have the power to change the world. The dirty pics the worlds richest man sent to his girlfriend? They do.Ive long thought there should be an annual release-a-nude-pic day. Imagine a kind of purge where all Americans would unite by mass-releasing dirty pics, thus depriving hackers, vengeful exes, unscrupulous publishers, sex-phobic employers and former K.G.B. agents of the power to destroy peoples lives. If you go first, Jeff, well call it Jeff Bezos Day. Its a far better legacy than wage theft.Dan Savage (@fakedansavage) is a nationally syndicated sex advice columnist and The Strangers editorial director. He is the author of several books and the host of the Savage Lovecast.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Jeffery C. Mays[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]DES MOINES  He seemed at complete ease, shaking hands, posing for selfies and cracking tall guy jokes, as he laid out a plan for Democrats to take back the White House.Perhaps Bill de Blasios comfort level was aided by familiarity: This was believed to be his fourth trip to Iowa since he became mayor of New York City in 2014.It could have been the sparse crowd: Only about two dozen people braved blizzard-like conditions in Sioux City Saturday to attend the gathering organized by the Woodbury County Democrats, a traditional stop for presidential hopefuls.On Sunday, Mr. de Blasio was warmly received at the Asian & Latino Coalition PAC in Des Moines, where 40 people gathered and applauded when he talked about money being in the wrong hands.When Democrats sound apologetic for who we are, people pick up on that right away, Mr. de Blasio said to grunts of agreement.He spoke about New York Citys recent health care initiative for undocumented immigrants, paid sick-leave, universal prekindergarten and early childhood education  accomplishments he has said could be a model for the nation.There was no mention Saturday night of the difficulties he has had taming homelessness, repairing the citys decrepit public housing or the fallout of the recent decision by Amazon to pull out of a plan to build a campus in Long Island City, Queens.Both Amazon and homelessness did come up during his meeting Sunday with the Asian & Latino Coalition PAC. The mayor said he failed to recognize the causes of homelessness early enough, and that Amazon pits cities who want good-paying jobs against each other.The same political action committee recently hosted Senator Kamala Harris, a Democrat from California, and Michael R. Bloomberg, the former mayor.The appearances gave Mr. de Blasio a chance to escape the criticism he has faced back home that he did not belong on the campaign trail.If you look at the everyday discourse, you might think this is a country mired in division and that conservative forces are dominant. I think its quite the opposite, Mr. de Blasio said on Saturday. I think this is a country waiting to be unified.The question of whether Mr. de Blasio would try to unify the country by running for president or just continue to talk about it remained unanswered. The mayor gave his stock response of late that he has not ruled out a run for president, obviously.Even if he hasnt declared, Mr. de Blasio was acting and was treated like a candidate. He was the third Democrat who has announced or is mulling a presidential bid to be hosted by the Woodbury County Democrats in the previous 48 hours. The former governor of Colorado, John Hickenlooper, held court in a nearby coffee shop earlier in the day, and Julin Castro, the former housing secretary, attended a fund-raiser at a private home the day before.Why else is the mayor of New York in Iowa? asked Gary Lipschutz, 76, who has participated in the Iowa caucuses since 1966, and attended events by all three of Sioux Citys recent political visitors. Iowa and the other early primary states dont decide who is going to be president. We decide who is not going to be president.Mr. de Blasio called the decision personal and said in an interview that he would need to speak with his family.At both stops, he said Democrats need to focus on improving the lives of working people who are being paid less money. That message, he said, would bring out voters who stayed home during the 2016 presidential election, and bring the party back to its earlier roots.Being critical of President Trump is not an election strategy that works, the mayor added, criticizing his former boss and former Democratic nominee for president, Hillary Clinton.Were not going to win by talking about Donald Trump. I have deep respect for our previous nominee. I know her very well, but I think that was one of the mistakes, Mr. de Blasio said.As part of his push to spread this message, the mayor said he would be traveling to early primary states such as Iowa. Mr. de Blasio canceled a recent trip to New Hampshire after the death of a New York City police detective, but he has visited Harvard University and the United States Conference of Mayors in Washington in recent weeks. More trips could be on tap, he said.On Sunday, Mr. de Blasio met in Des Moines with the mayor, Frank Cownie and the former Iowa governor and United States agriculture secretary, Tom Vilsack. A meeting with J.D. Scholten, who almost defeated Representative Steve King, the Iowa Republican who was recently stripped of two committee assignments after he questioned why white supremacy is considered offensive, was scuttled because of the weather. The storm also forced Mr. de Blasio into a motel overnight after a highway was closed on his trip from Sioux City to Des Moines.Mr. de Blasio said the rules of the game have changed and he was not concerned that he had not assembled the typical machinery of consultants and on-the-ground personnel needed for a presidential campaign. No one thought he would be mayor when he first started running, he said.Either way, Mr. de Blasio was welcome in Iowa in spite of his indecision. Our group is very progressive and we like that progressive message he brings, said Mitch Henry, co-founder of the Asian & Latino Coalition.In Sioux City, the mayor was asked questions pertinent to a presidential campaign, such as how he would approach foreign policy, his strategy to beat Mr. Trump and how he would handle appointing less conservative judges.Natalie Hattorf, 28, and her mother Jaime, 55, said they felt Mr. de Blasio showed empathy after they described their difficulty in getting marijuana products for a sick uncle.Mr. de Blasio has been criticized for being a step behind other progressive Democrats on legalizing marijuana, endorsing it recently after it became clear that New York State seemed poised to do so. The mayor responded to the mother and daughter about how his marijuana plan for the city aims to keep corporate producers of the drug from dominating the industry.If hes not a front-runner, said the elder Ms. Hattorf, he could easily be someones running mate.But there was also the cold acknowledgment from some in attendance that they did not know much about Mr. de Blasio and were wary of his chances to even compete for the presidency.Ill be honest, Im not 100 percent sure what hes doing here, Vladimir Landman, 36, a software developer who grew up in Brooklyn but now lives in Sioux City, said after the mayors speech.Unlike some of the mayors colleagues in New York City, Mr. Landman believes Mr. de Blasio is qualified to be president, but said the Democratic field might be too deep this time around for the mayor to make an impact.I dont know how far hed get, Mr. Landman said.Follow Jeffery C. Mays on Twitter: @JeffCMays Advertisement"
"Advertisement

      By ZACH WICHTER

UPDATED April 11, 2019

Boeing has come under intense scrutiny after its best-selling 737 Max jet was involved in two deadly crashes in five months.
[Sign up for With Interest, a Sunday newsletter to catch you up and prep for the coming week in business and tech news.] In October, Lion Air Flight 610 crashed just minutes after taking off from Jakarta, Indonesia. It was the first fatal accident involving a 737 Max. 189 people died. On March 10, Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302, involving the same Max jet model, also crashed minutes after takeoff, killing all 157 people on board. Inquiries into both crashes are continuing, but preliminary black box data suggested similarities between the two accidents: An automated system designed to help the plane avoid stalling may have helped cause them.The more we know, the more we realize what we dont know. John Cox, an aviation consultant and former 737 pilot.The paths of every Max 8 flight in a week After the Ethiopian Airlines crash, aviation regulators, starting with those in China, grounded the Max. Governments around the world quickly followed suit, and many prohibited the Max jet from flying in their airspace altogether. The Max, which airlines first began flying in 2017, makes up a relatively small portion of the global aircraft fleet, so disruptions to most flight schedules have been minimal. But carriers like Southwest and American Airlines have had to adjust their schedules in some cases through August to account for the grounding.The safety of the American people and all people is our paramount concern. President Trump, as he made the announcement that the United States would ground the plane. Boeing has thousands of unfilled Max orders, which amount to billions of dollars in revenue in the coming years. But in the first quarter of this year, the company saw a sharp dropoff in orders for the plane, and it has announced plans to slow the production line. There have been two types of Max jets in operation, with two more on the way. While there are many models of the 737, the automated system in question is only on the Max. The 737 was first developed in the 1960s and all versions of the plane since have had several common characteristics. The Max was a product of a corporate tit-for-tat between Boeing and its rival, Airbus. Boeing developed the plane  a single-aisle jet that seats about 200 passengers  to fly farther and more efficiently than other 737s. The Max has larger engines, which alter the planes aerodynamics and make it more likely to stall in some flight conditions. Boeing developed an automatic system, known as MCAS, that pushes the planes nose down in some circumstances in order to stabilize the aircraft.How the MCAS system was designed to work:See how MCAS may have helped cause the two crashes  Many pilots did not know that the system even existed. As some have begun training on MCAS scenarios in simulators, they learned that Lion Air pilots had as little as 40 seconds to identify the problem and recover the plane from its nosedive. In the wake of the accidents, the company has been working on a software update for the system, which the F.A.A. and other regulators need to review before it can be implemented. The Federal Aviation Administration, which is perennially understaffed, has long delegated some of its responsibilities to companies that it regulates, including Boeing. Some Boeing employees were partly responsible for certifying the Max as airworthy. The Justice Department, the Department of Transportation and other agencies have opened inquiries into the crash and Boeings relationship with the F.A.A.Boeing and the F.A.A. have had an almost symbiotic relationship. The relationship is too cozy. Michael Dreikorn, an aviation safety expert who previously worked in a safety oversight role at the F.A.A. Investigators in Ethiopia said the pilots on that flight repeatedly used procedures outlined by Boeing to disengage the system, but the plane still wound up in an unrecoverable nose-dive. The software update is taking longer than expected to roll out, which means that the planes are likely to be grounded for the foreseeable future. Weeks after the Ethiopia crash, Boeings chief executive acknowledged that MCAS appeared to have played a role in both deadly accidents, and has promised to have safety be a top priority at the company. Safety is our responsibility, and we own it.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON  At 23, Elizabeth Pipko has branded herself on social media as a onetime figure skater, a part-time poet and a former Trump campaign aide, an Instagramista whose feed spotlights her Mar-a-Lago wedding and racy swimsuit and lingerie modeling shots.But when President Trump latched onto Ms. Pipkos concept of a Jexodus  a fledgling, and some would say crass, effort by Republicans to woo Jews away from the Democratic Party  even Democratic leaders found themselves defensively responding to a young woman they did not know existed a month ago.The rise of Ms. Pipko and the notion of a Jexodus  there is no evidence that any such thing is occurring  is an object lesson in how an idea can migrate from a no-name messenger to the broad body politic, through the organ of Fox News and the megaphone of the presidents Twitter account.We left Egypt, and now were leaving the Democratic Party, Ms. Pipko declared last week on Fox & Friends, the presidents favorite television program, prompting a flurry of tweets about Jexodus from Mr. Trump, and an angry retort from Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the House Democratic leader.About that exodus: Some 79 percent of Jews voted for Democrats in last years midterm elections, according to exit polling data, up from the 71 percent who voted for Hillary Clinton in 2016 and the 69 percent who voted for Barack Obama in 2012. And Jews take a dim view of Mr. Trump, according to a 2018 Gallup poll that found that just 26 percent of Jews approved of the presidents performance, the lowest of any major religious group.And about that name, Jexodus. Obviously, its a play on Exodus, Ms. Pipko said on Fox. (There was, of course, an Exodus in the Bible. It involved Jews. So why the J? Is the next step renaming Passover as Jassover?)The Exodus is the most important master class in redemption in human history, and it is the ground for why we care about all those who are oppressed by slavery, said Rabbi Jonah Pesner, the director of the Religious Action Center of Reform Judaism. To crush that redemptive narrative into the crucible of partisan politics, I find very troubling.The Palestinian-American writer Yousef Munayyer took a lighter view. Jexodus, he said, reminded him of a bad Weird Al Yankovic parody of Bob Marley: Movement of Jah people.Jexodus may have gotten the hint on the name. On Thursday, its leaders announced that they were rebranding it the Exodus Movement, an initiative of Red Sea Rising, incorporated by Ms. Pipko as a tax-exempt social welfare organization. On Wednesday afternoon, the Jexodus.org website was taken down; a new one, TheExodusMovement.com, went live on Thursday.But on the mission, Ms. Pipko said she was undeterred. Were obviously super-realistic and aware that overwhelmingly, the Jewish people have supported Democrats over the years, Ms. Pipko said in an interview, though she added, I love a challenge.In a strategy memo shared with The New York Times, she wrote that she intended to use extensive microtargeting to find persuadable Jews in eight states  Florida, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Nevada, Arizona, Colorado, Michigan and Minnesota  where Jews make up more than 2 percent of the vote in a total of 31 House districts.The effort comes at a fraught moment for Israel supporters in the Democratic Party. Two freshman Democrats  Representatives Ilhan Omar of Minnesota and Rashida Tlaib of Michigan  embrace the boycott-Israel movement and have been fending off charges of anti-Semitism for weeks. The Republican National Committee and the National Republican Congressional Committee have streamed out a barrage of news releases accusing Democrats of anti-Semitism or coddling anti-Semites.A New York native and granddaughter of Marc Klionsky, a Russian-born Jewish painter, Ms. Pipko  who was described on the Jexodus website as an international model, Trump 2016 campaign staffer, poet, patriot and fiercely proud millennial Jew  is not new to media attention.A 2015 Esquire article about her said she took a year off from minoring in mathematics at Harvard to train for the Olympics in figure skating, though her LinkedIn profile notes that she attends the Harvard Extension School, not Harvard College, and her skating career was derailed, she said Wednesday, by an injury when she was 15. Her poetry books  Sweet 16 and About You  were self-published: Her skin was luscious, peachy clean. Her eyes a chocolate brown. Her smile full of life. The envy of her town.While Ms. Pipko is the public face of Jexodus, the idea originated with Jeff Ballabon, an adviser to the 2016 Trump campaign and self-described very traditionally observant Jew who said he was deeply disturbed by the rising tide of anti-Israel sentiment on the progressive left.In an email, he said he came up with Jexodus as a rallying cry to help make it O.K. for Jews to be proudly independent or Republican or even active Trump supporters. And he lamented the nightmare we have now where a major party believes it has a lock on the Jews and so is free to court Jew haters.He announced the new group at the Conservative Political Action Conference in Washington this month, along with Sebastian Gorka  a former Trump White House official who has been accused of a decades-old alignment with Nazi groups in his native Hungary.CPAC attendees: check out the awesome #JEXODUS swag & tweet pics wearing it! Mr. Ballabon wrote on Twitter.Mr. Gorka declined to be interviewed. I will not assist a publication clearly dedicated to a monomaniacal political agenda of undermining the duly elected president of the United States, he said in an email.Jexodus, now the Exodus Movement, is making its debut just days before 18,000 people  including Vice President Mike Pence, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and top congressional leaders  are to gather in Washington for the annual policy conference of the American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the pro-Israel lobbying behemoth.Mr. Trump, despite his own history of trafficking in anti-Semitic tropes, is clearly trying to exploit the moment. There is anti-Semitism in the Democratic Party, he wrote on Twitter last week, quoting Ms. Pipkos Fox appearance.That raised the hackles not only of Democrats, but of the foreign policy establishment.The deployment of Jexodus is vintage Trump, said Aaron David Miller, Middle East program director at the Wilson Center, a foreign affairs research organization, a cynical, Twitter-friendly conceit designed to undermine bipartisanship  critically important to a healthy U.S.-Israeli relationship  by trying to establish the Republican Party as the go-to party on Israel and in the process tar the Democrats with labels that run from anti-Israel to anti-Jewish.On Friday, Mr. Hoyer, the House Democratic leader, shot back. Exploiting anti-Semitism for partisan advantage is dangerous and wrong, he said. It is misleading on the facts, destructive to the critical bipartisan support that Israel has always enjoyed and that has been so important to its security and success, and a risk to the unity of our country.Ms. Pipko insists she simply wants to educate people. She has kind of said goodbye to modeling  I think Im moving past it, she said  though given her unusual rsum and her very much active Instagram account she seems to expect that people will doubt her.I cant blame them, she said. Theres a lot that Ive done thats very far from politics. Im also 23 years old. Im very O.K. with having to prove myself, and Im excited to show people that I am very serious.An earlier version of a story on the Jexodus movement said Elizabeth Pipko attends the Harvard Extension School, not Harvard University. The extension school is part of the university. She does not attend Harvard College.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Alan RappeportWASHINGTON  President Trump has latched on to the idea of using steel to build his wall along the southern border, praising himself for fulfilling two campaign promises at once: keeping out illegal immigrants and resuscitating a struggling industry.They were doing very poorly when I took office, and now theyre doing very well, Mr. Trump said of American steel makers before boarding Marine One this month. Our steel industry was dying, and now its very vibrant.But in the 10 months since the Trump administration imposed 25 percent tariffs on steel imports, prices in the United States have now fallen back to levels last seen before the tariffs were announced on March 1.Hiring in the steel sector remains stagnant, in part because new mills have become more reliant on automation. Even with the opening and restarting of several mills last year, direct steel industry employment was 146,300 as of November  4 percent lower than it was four years ago, according to the American Iron and Steel Institute. Industry analysts estimate that steel companies made 50 announcements of plans for new mills and investments last year and that three dozen plants were built or restarted.Investors are increasingly wary about the industrys long-term strength. Stock prices for some of the nations biggest steel manufacturers dropped by as much as 47 percent in 2018 amid fears of slowing global economic growth and the potential for Mr. Trump to reach trade deals that remove the tariffs.We fully expect the players in the steel supply chain to have weaker years in 2019, said Philip Gibbs, a metals analyst at KeyBanc in Ohio.The Trump administration imposed sweeping steel and aluminum tariffs on trading partners like Europe, Canada, Japan and Mexico, saying it was trying to protect American security by preventing a flood of cheap metals into the United States. The tariffs, which went fully into effect in June, initially goosed steel prices in the United States, which jumped more than 50 percent after it became clear that the tariffs would really be put in place.Mr. Trump has routinely pointed to the rising prices as a boon to American steel companies. But the price spike ultimately hurt demand as industries that rely on the metal, like automakers and homebuilders, struggled to absorb the rising costs or passed them on to customers.Caterpillar, the farm equipment manufacturer, said last year that it would face $200 million in additional costs because of the steel tariffs. General Motors slashed its profits forecast for 2018 because of higher steel costs. Many businesses chose alternative materials or delayed investments, putting pressure on steel prices, which have since fallen.According to S&P Global Platts, prices for American-made hot-rolled coil steel, the industry benchmark, jumped 41 percent in the first half of 2018 and then fell about 21 percent from that peak in the second half of the year. That trend is likely to continue this year.Steel prices remain under pressure to begin 2019, said Michael Fitzgerald, a metals pricing specialist at S&P Global Platts. Typical seasonal improvements following the slower holiday period are yet to take hold as domestic steel buyers no longer fear a supply crunch.American businesses and trade groups have repeatedly urged the Trump administration to remove the tariffs, arguing they hurt domestic companies, not competitors, and will ultimately undercut economic growth.Tariffs are taxes paid for by American families and American businesses  not foreigners, said Thomas J. Donohue, the president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.American steel makers are feeling the pressure. Despite strong earnings in 2018, the stock prices of steel companies have been in a deep slump as investors fret that they are being propped up by government support that will be temporary. In the last year, shares of AK Steel are down 56 percent, US Steel is down 46 percent, Steel Dynamics is down 29 percent and Nucors stock is down 18 percent.John J. Ferriola, the chief executive of Nucor, said that the falling stock price is head-scratching because he believes that the industry is on solid footing. While Mr. Trumps tariffs have provided a tailwind, a strong economy, tax cuts and anti-dumping measures put in place by the Obama administration have revived the steel industry, Mr. Ferriola said.Theres a lot of doomsday talk about the tariffs and a lot of misinformation, Mr. Ferriola said in an interview. I keep hearing about how it is driving down demand and putting our customers out of business. We had a record year last year, and many of our customers also had a record year.Nucor announced last week that it plans to build a $1.35 billion steel plant in the Midwest. However, trade experts and steel analysts worry the additional capacity could drive down steel prices even further and question whether such projects will eventually be scrapped if the economy cools.A key for the industry will be improving efficiency while the insulation from the tariffs remains.Historically the U.S. steel industry has received a tremendous amount of trade protection over the last 40 years in different forms, said Chad Bown, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. The issue is that during the periods that they do receive protection, they dont historically tend to invest in becoming more efficient and more competitive.In the near term, the steel industrys best hopes for a meaningful lift would be Mr. Trump and Congress joining forces on major infrastructure legislation that would keep Americas steel mills churning.With such movement unlikely amid partisan gridlock in Washington, some are hanging their hopes on the possibility of a border wall built with steel slats or, as Mr. Trump recently suggested, steel that has concrete inside. According to an analysis conducted by the American Iron and Steel Institute, the industrys lobbying group, an all-steel barrier along the border could consume as much as three million tons of steel.If they decide to build a barrier and decide to make it out of steel, the industry stands ready and capable and more than able to provide the steel and assist in the construction, Mr. Ferriola said.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Maureen DowdOpinion ColumnistWASHINGTON  Its a truism in Washington that when politicians say theyre not running so they can spend more time with their families, something else, possibly something salacious, is afoot.But with Joe Biden, his family history is so tragic and so fraught, calculations about how a presidential run would affect his wounded clan are not code for some other problem.Bidens appeal for 2020 is that he comes across as a warm, blue-collar, touchy-feely paternal figure, sometimes talking too much, sometimes saying the wrong thing, like calling parts of Asia the Orient. At 76, hes been through it all, and then some.But as he prepares to present himself as a seasoned patriarch who can lead the country in a smooth, classy way, unlike the current occupant of the Oval, he must grapple with the painful reality of his life as the head of a family that has messily spilled into the tabloids, a brood that is still brooding and suffering the reverberations of 46-year-old Beau Bidens death from brain cancer in 2015.The last time Biden thought about running, in 2016, he was in a miasma of grief about Beau, his oldest son  the former Delaware attorney general whom Joe Biden fervently hoped might be president some day.Grief aside, Barack Obama and his coterie of top aides did not think the vice president was the right person to protect and extend the Obama legacy.But there was a school of thought that, given the monumental effort it took to dismantle the Clinton machine, it would be better to move on from Hillary. Some Biden allies felt that his powerful story of rising above personal loss  his first wife and infant daughter died in a car crash just before Christmas in 1972  could be a superpower to connect with suffering Americans and that such a raw quest would be good therapy for him.But Obama felt differently. He could make it up to Hillary and feminist activists for hopscotching over the New York senator who might have blown out the glass ceiling in 2008.Also, Obama and his strategists thought Biden had hit his ceiling, had his day, had too many gaffes. Hillary, Obama thought, was an impressive and loyal cabinet member who was great in meetings.It escaped the attention of Professor Obama that a populist rage was rising, and that a multimillionaire taking a fortune from Goldman Sachs on the eve of her campaign might not suit the moment. Uncle Joe may be the epitome of the establishment, but at least the teetotaler knows how to talk to Joe Sixpack.The president told his faithful vice president that it was Hillarys turn and Biden tried to accept it. Biden had known for years that the party would want to follow the first African-American president with the first woman president.As they pushed him aside, giving him the Medal of Freedom to assuage the dis, the Obama team told reporters that Biden was too emotionally fragile to compete. As one former Obama strategist recently reiterated to me, Youve got to be able to make it to the end of a sentence without crying to run for president.Hunter Biden and the ailing Beau had wanted their father to run. They did not want a Clinton restoration. Biden succumbed to pressure and gave way to Hillary. And the rest is sordid history. Members of Obamas inner circle say the former president realizes now he should not have christened Hillary the successor, that he should have let Bernie, Joe and Hillary fight it out.As Donald Trumps reality-TV family took over the White House, Biden had to deal with his own familys scandalous headlines.Beau Bidens Widow Having Affair With His Married Brother, blared Page Six. Hunter Bidens Estranged Wife Claims He Spent Extravagantly on Drugs, Alcohol, Prostitutes and Strip Clubs, blasted People. Kathleen Biden Sobs in Court as She Details the Collapse of Her Marriage to Hunter But Hes No-Show, screeched The Daily Mail.Joe and Jill Biden gave a statement to Page Sixs Emily Smith about the Hamlet-like union of Beaus widow, Hallie, and Beaus brother, Hunter (which now seems to have dimmed): We are all lucky that Hunter and Hallie found each other as they were putting their lives together again after such sadness. They have mine and Jills full and complete support and we are happy for them.It was understandable that, having lost so many close to him, Biden would hold the troubled Hunter tight. And he was doubtless upset about the public nature of the divorce.Still, his statement upset Kathleens friends and became a running topic at Washington dinner parties, where guests worried about Kathleen being frozen out; though Joe is close to her three daughters, the new family dynamic led to awkward moments at soccer games and family holidays. (While covering the Obama White House, I got to know Hunter as well as Kathleen, who became good friends and Soul Cycle mates with Michelle Obama.)Kathleen Buhle Biden, as she is now known, has not spoken publicly about this; she passionately pushed her father-in-laws candidacies over the years, including the last time, when others were trying to push him out, and does not want this drama to interfere in any way.In a statement to Vanity Fair, Hunter Biden also said his travails should not deter his father from running: We dont pretend that we are different from families all over America that have to face the loss of loved ones, or have to deal with the fallout of divorces.But not all families have to stomach Donald Trumps low blows, as Biden will if he runs. And Biden will have to temper that Irish temper of his.I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@MaureenDowd) and join me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported bywith interestPlus, predatory lenders get a boost, and President Trump wont meet with his counterpart in China  yet.By Charlotte CowlesWant this column in your inbox? Sign up here.Are you a Valentines Day person? If not, welcome to a growing club of detractors. Only 51 percent of Americans plan to celebrate the holiday in 2019, according to the National Retail Federation, marking a 12-year downward trend. But if you are an observer, how nice  for your loved ones. Retailers are expecting you to spend a record amount on presents this season (an average of $161.96, up 13 percent from 2018). At least you die-hard romantics are making up for the rest of us. Speaking of gifts, heres mine to you: All you need to know about the latest business and tech news, gathered into one email thatll set you up for the week ahead. Chocolates sold separately.FEB. 3-9Jeff Bezos, Amazons chief executive and the wealthiest man in the world, accused the owner of The National Enquirer on Thursday of attempting to extort and blackmail him by using racy photos that Mr. Bezos had texted with his girlfriend, the former television host Lauren Sanchez. In a candid blog post, Mr. Bezos pasted emails from the tabloids representatives who threatened to release the images if he did not stop investigating how they had obtained his texts. Of course I dont want personal photos published, but I also wont participate in their well-known practice of blackmail, political favors, political attacks and corruption, Mr. Bezos wrote. If youve ever considered going into crippling debt, the government just made it easier to do so. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau said on Wednesday that it planned to eliminate Obama-era rules that protect consumers from taking on bigger loans than they can handle. Under the proposal, lenders would be able to grant high-interest payday loans (short-term loans intended to tide people over until their next paycheck) without making sure consumers can actually pay them off. And those lenders would be allowed to do so repeatedly, contributing to a cycle where borrowers spin into ballooning debt. The agency said its policy would give people more access to credit. But critics say it will help predatory lenders take advantage of people who already cant make ends meet. Its not just your imagination  the past five years have been the hottest on record in Earths history, according to data from NASA. The report set the stage for liberal Democrats to unveil their Green New Deal on Thursday, a proposal for sweeping changes that would make the United States carbon neutral by 2030 and create millions of green jobs in the process. The measure was drafted by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Senator Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, and it wont go anywhere for now  Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California has no plans to bring it for a vote. Either way, its a bold rallying cry, and may gain steam going into the 2020 elections. FEB. 10-16As the economy recovers from the governments longest shutdown in history (and will be recuperating for some time), Congress is working to prevent another one starting after midnight on Friday. Thats the deadline for Mr. Trump to strike an agreement with lawmakers on a new spending bill that will keep the lights on at federal agencies. Mr. Trump continues to insist on funding for a border wall, but is showing some signs of willingness to compromise. Speaker Pelosi says shes aiming for good news in a short period of time. Are you sick of hearing about the costly trade dispute between the United States and China? Me, too. But this week could be the beginning of the end of it  or, at least Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin seems to hope so. Hes traveling to Beijing with other American officials to continue talks that started in Washington in January. If the two sides cant hammer out a resolution before March 2, the Trump administration will raise punishing tariffs on Chinese goods, hurting businesses and consumers in both countries (and others). For his own part, Mr. Trump said it was unlikely that he would sit down with President Xi Jinping of China before the deadline. The monetary repercussions of Britains chaotic withdrawal from the European Union keep piling up. Last year, the country experienced its slowest economic growth in a decade, according to a new report from the Bank of England that, predictably, attributed the slump to the fog of Brexit. Those clouds will probably stick around this week as Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain continues her dogged efforts to patch up the tattered proposal. European leaders said they wouldnt renegotiate the deal, but now theyre vaguely open to talks. Of course, the major sticking point  the border between the Irelands  remains part of the plan, so you can guess how those discussions will go. Data from pharmacies in different neighborhoods shows that rich people buy different prescription drugs than poor ones. Apple has fixed the glitch that allowed people to eavesdrop on each others FaceTime calls and thanked the 14-year-old who discovered it by offering to pay for his education. Instacart, which offers delivery services through an app, backed off its policy to count customers tips toward its workers minimum wages  a victory for members of the gig economy. And finally, Carlos Ghosn, the disgraced former chairman of the automaker Renault, may have spent 50,000 euros (about $57,000) on his own lavish wedding at the Palace of Versailles in 2016. Youve got to hand it to him  it looks like a great party.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byletterWorking-class Americans voted for Donald Trump to look out for them. Instead, he is robbing the poor and giving to the rich, says a reader.To the Editor:Re Mr. Trumps Payback for Payday Lenders (editorial, Feb. 13):Many working-class Americans voted for Donald Trump as the strong leader who would look out for them. Instead, they got a Robin Hood in reverse. He is robbing the poor and giving to the rich. It has been the policy of this administration to cut protections for the poor while reducing taxes on the rich.Working people were voting for Robin Hood, but they got the Sheriff of Nottingham instead.Michael GoudketNew YorkAdvertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byLove, political change, a pennant: Readers respond with their hopes for 2019, for both themselves and for the world.By Rachel L. Harris and Lisa TarchakMs. Harris and Ms. Tarchak are senior editorial assistants.How do you define hope  a state of mind, a plan for action? Or simply the act of being grateful? We asked readers to define what hope means to them, and to share their dreams and aspirations for 2019. Many wrote of the mending of political and social divides, some the mending of their own families. There were longings for deeper love and declarations to do good. A few lamented that they saw no hope in sight, for their communities or for themselves.But for Jacqueline Haley, a reader from Weymouth, Mass., hope is being able to dwell in the present. Having advanced stage recurrent cancer is indeed my gift, she wrote. Never has the world looked so perfectly designed or more capable of righting itself, despite the human folly that interrupts and disrupts. My hope for 2019 is that myself and everyone else can relish simply being here now.More responses from our readers are below, edited for clarity and length.My deeply personal hope is for the ability to act out of love, even in very trying and triggering times. To find that golden, shiny space in a personal relationship and to live there long enough to feel the heart crack open and experience transcendent freedom and a whole new, deeper way of seeing the other person. My universal hope is that we are all struck by such awareness. What a world that would be!  Dawn Montanye, Ithaca, N.Y.I have been married to a man for almost 40 years. Hes a good man, but hes not my soul mate. I have wanted to leave him several times. I never did, for the usual reasons: kids, economics, laziness, fear of the unknown. We went on, the kids grew up, and we just settled in. About six years ago, he was diagnosed with dementia. In October 2018, he was diagnosed with stage four lung cancer. I thought I knew everything about this man but he has surprised me and, moreover, given me a lesson in love. He used to be full of anxieties and anger. Now he has distilled himself down to pure love. Its who he is and how his days go. He tells us how much he loves us, he tells people hes supposed to know but has forgotten how much he loves them. Its not just words, its action; in his eyes, his face, his gestures. He lights up at your presence; he kisses your hand; he tells you how wonderful you look. He dispenses love from a bottomless well. There is no filter, no bargaining for affection. And I stand here, in awe.  Mary Carroll, Copake, N.Y.We lost our 6-year old daughter, Nina, to cancer last year. She was funny, bright, and the kindest soul I have ever known. My own life has seemed to stretch out endlessly and pointlessly in front of me while my radiant child lies buried in the ground. To give our 12-year old son a buddy, my husband and I agreed to bring home a puppy in the new year, a ridiculously fluffy, boisterous little Havanese. And suddenly we find that we are all breathing a little easier, smiling at the thought of this energetic new life entering ours. The tiniest flicker of hope is here again.  Usha Rao, PhiladelphiaI had been serving as a Peace Corps volunteer in Uganda through a program that was attached to the Corps. Funding for the program was cut when the Trump administration took over. I am 73 and I know that for three years I made a profound difference. I want to return to my students there in the midwifery program. The work has just begun.  Cherie Clark, Broomfield, Colo.My hope for 2019 is that all U.S. citizens will have fair and affordable access to health care services. I worked as an R.N. case manager for years, both on the insurance side and hospital side. Maybe people dont realize the burdens of pre-existing conditions, health care services caps or young people not being able to get insurance. I hope for legislators who see the need to take care of their citizens, and that this country will have the stamina, concern and willpower to provide health care to all.  Georgia Stapleton, Shawano, Wis.My hope for 2019 is a return to the bad weather of the good old days, when California was wetter, Texas was dryer and hurricanes were just destructive, not biblical. My hope is that sky rivers revert to rainstorms that simply ruined graduations and picnics, and that snowstorms become a reason to drink hot chocolate under warm blankets again. Bad weather used to be an inconvenience that gave us welcome pauses from routine and bloated schedules. Nature is now a raging, unrelenting, unpredictable force, unsettling and sometimes downright scary. We are at its mercy and there is no help coming.  John White, Newport News, Va.Im hopeful that my son and my daughter, both in their 20s, can be kind to each other again. Theyre struggling to understand and adapt to the shifting dynamics of relationships between men and women in this #MeToo moment. Theyre taking their frustrations out on each other and its hard for a mother to endure.  Pauline Andersen, MinneapolisI hope that we prioritize research for pediatric cancer in 2019. My daughters treatment used highly toxic chemotherapy with 30-year-old drugs. The side effects were horrific. The money floated for the wall could be a game changer for kids with cancer.  Debra Jacobs, Ashland, Va.My hope is to find more inner peace and stop relying on a world in chaos to deliver it to me.  K Lachenman, DenverI hope that some miracle occurs and my job starts paying a living wage or that my co-workers see the value of joining a union, leading to better wages for all of us.  Karen, OhioHope means family. I hope that in 2019 it will be easier to get a tourist visa to the U.S. I am here as an asylum applicant waiting for my papers and I have not seen my parents for years. Their visas have been rejected more than once since Trump became president.  Ecaterina Trohin, BostonHope is being given a fair chance to be and do what makes you happy. We all have obstacles but some are so institutionalized that many have no hope. I am a 71-year-old white man who has never experienced discrimination. I have always been at the front of line, not because of my abilities but because of the color of my skin. I know this will not be solved in 2019 but I hope we can make some reasonable progress. Is that too much to hope for?  Vincent Dailey, Wilton, Conn.As a dreamer who thought I could manifest anything with good intentions and hard work, 2018 was soul crushing for me. After a broken heart and the cruel machinations of divorce, I crawled on my emotional knees into a courtroom to defend my ability to keep my children and my home. As the judge granted me grace, I shook, cried and choked on my words of thanks. Hope in 2019 is still too abstract for my bruised heart, but I find that giving to others fills my empty cup. I can do for others what I cannot manifest for myself. And in my acts, their happiness and hope is reflected back to me, by proxy.  Cynthia Cole, Saratoga, Calif.Let 2019 be the year we break free from our phones. I dont want to see parents scrolling through social media feeds at the playground while their little children shout desperately, Look at me!  Leslie DuPree, Davenport, IowaI hope Ruth Bader Ginsburg has the endurance and longevity of a tardigrade vampire.  Gary Taustine, ManhattanYes, of course I want a pennant. Im a Yankee fan, I ALWAYS want a pennant. I want a Stanley Cup, Im an Islander fan and its been too long. I hope and pray for health and happiness for my children.However, more than anything I hope to see change in government operations. I am so worn down and filled with rage at the current administration. I want to know that the one occupying the Oval Office shares my reverence for what it represents rather than make a global mockery of it. So hope to me for 2019 means a recommitment to feeling that positive change in government is possible, specifically that the path forward is proper, respectful and legal, and that we can once again be the nation the world turns to for inspiration, assistance and hope.  David Leicht, Long Island, N.Y.I hope that we citizens of the United States remain engaged in the political process and begin real discussions about race, health care, climate change, wealth distribution and our role in the world. We are at a crossroads, testing once again whether government of the people, by the people and for the people can long endure. I hope we pass the test.  David Keller MD, DenverI hope that 2019 is the year we stop blaming and name-calling and start connecting. I want 2019 to be the year we stop talking politics and start talking to each other. I hope that instead of talking about impeachment and the 2020 Democratic nominee, we can refocus on how communities can work together to change their own lives. Yes, policy is important, but policy will not save us from loneliness and depression. It cannot save us soon enough from climate change or inequality. If we want the world we live in to be different, we each have to take responsibility for changing it. I want this to be the year we stop looking to our elected officials as the next great hope and start looking for our allies among our neighbors instead.  Alicia Bonner Ness, Brooklyn, N.Y.I hope that the global trend toward strong men and bullying dictators as an easy solution to complex problems (is this partly a reaction to womens momentum?) begins to wane, starting with Trump deposed or leaving under his own steam. Its the example we can show to the world.  Sandra Neily, Greenville, Me.That President Trump resigns from office in a way that avoids him becoming a martyr to the right wing. I know, I know, Im an inveterate optimist.  Roger Clayton, Schenectady, N.Y.Hope is an ideal that a situation will get better if an individual works to make a positive change in their circumstances. You can see it in the protests against Trumps election and the Muslim ban, against the defunding of Planned Parenthood and the appointment of Justice Kavanaugh, and in the historic Womens March. The citizens of this country are rising up to say that we have had enough. In a political sense, hope is that some of the abuses of power that have been constant over the past two years will be challenged and that a system of checks and balances will be restored. In 2019, hope may well become something real and Americans will be able to aspire to different ideals and dreams, replacing some of the fear and hatred that has been so rampant. I cling to this scenario because it is imperative that our government works for all of the citizens of this country.  Kathleen Kockritz, DallasHope means optimism for the future. Not money or things, just the belief that life has a forward positive momentum in the things that matter. My hope for 2019 is that my wife, battling a very serious health issue, has a good year. I will hope to have the same wish in 2020 and beyond.  Jordan Schweon, New YorkFollow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Jonathan Martin and Sydney Ember[Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.]DES MOINES  The sharp left turn in the Democratic Party and the rise of progressive presidential candidates are unnerving moderate Democrats who increasingly fear that the party could fritter away its chances of beating President Trump in 2020 by careening over a liberal cliff.Two months into the presidential campaign, the leading Democratic contenders have largely broken with consensus-driven politics and embraced leftist ideas on health care, taxes, the environment and Middle East policy that would fundamentally alter the economy, elements of foreign policy and ultimately remake American life.Led by Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, a democratic socialist who is the top candidate in the race at this early stage, many vocal leaders in the party are choosing to draw lessons from liberal victories in 2018 rather than the partys breakthroughs in moderate suburban battlegrounds that delivered Democratic control of the House.These progressive Democrats risk playing into Mr. Trumps hands  he has repeatedly branded them socialists  yet they argue that their ambitious agenda can inspire a voter revolt in 2020 that elects a left-wing president.Those ideas that we talked about here in Iowa four years ago that seemed so radical at the time, remember that? Mr. Sanders, returning to Iowa this week for the first time as a 2020 candidate, crowed on Thursday. Shock of all shocks, those very same ideas are now supported not only by Democratic candidates for president but by Democratic candidates all across the board, from school board on up.[Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.]The sprint toward populism amounts to a rejection of the incremental and often-defensive brand of politics that has characterized the partys approach to highly charged issues for 40 years. Yet when nearly half of voters indicate in polls that they will not support the presidents re-election, many moderates say the cautious strategy in 2018 that helped the party pick up 21 House seats that Mr. Trump carried two years earlier should be the playbook for next year.What we saw in the midterms is a lot of people from the center and moderate part of the party really win and take back the House, said Senator Maggie Hassan of New Hampshire, alluding to the careful and poll-tested campaigns many Democrats in Republican-leaning districts ran last year. We need to make sure were being as pragmatic as we can.This moderate wing of the party lacks an obvious standard-bearer. Former Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York, who would have run a centrist campaign, begged off this week; Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio, a Midwestern progressive who favors a within-the-system style of pragmatic politics, also decided not to run. Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, who is running, has presented herself as a centrist but has not yet gained traction.Should former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. enter the race, as his top advisers vow he soon will, he would have the best immediate shot at the moderate mantle. (And if he does not run, Democrats like former Gov. Terry McAuliffe of Virginia or Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York might try to seek that role.)Mr. Bidens candidacy would immediately thrust a fundamental dispute to the center of the Democratic race: Do Americans simply pine for a pre-Trump equilibrium, less chaos and more consensus, or do the yawning disparities of these times call out for a more transformational administration?[Read more: A beat Trump fervor is producing big turnouts for 2020 Democrats.]Mr. Sanders and other Democratic candidates, like Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, are plainly wagering that voters want more than a return to normalcy.In 2016 Iowa helped begin the political revolution, Mr. Sanders recalled on Saturday at a rally in Des Moines, referring to his near-victory in the states caucuses that year. Now as we move to 2020 our job is to complete that revolution.The liberal candidates have dominated the policy debate in the race so far. Ms. Warren proposed on Friday that the government break up big tech giants like Amazon and Facebook, the latest, and perhaps boldest, proposal to come from her campaign. And Mr. Sanderss platform  Medicare for all, free college tuition and an aggressive plan to combat climate change  has grown in popularity, according to polls.Speaking at the University of Iowa as part of his campaign swing, Mr. Sanders also took aim at establishment Democrats and won his loudest and most sustained applause by pledging to push through his universal health care bill.Mr. Sanders and Ms. Warren, along with a new generation of high-profile progressives like Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, have emerged this winter as the clearest and most vocal arbiters of Democratic aspirations, if not the immediate congressional agenda.They are, at least, hastening the tectonic shifts taking place in the party. It was no accident that House Democrats modified a resolution targeting Representative Ilhan Omar of Minnesota  for her controversial claim that pro-Israel advocates carry an allegiance to a foreign country  after Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, other lawmakers of color and the partys leading presidential hopefuls rebelled against singling out Ms. Omar. The episode marked a striking departure from the down-the-line support for Israel that has characterized the upper ranks of most Democratic primaries.Relying on wealthy donors has also been standard fare, and unremarkably so, in past White House races. But Mr. Sanders elevated the issue of campaign finance in his 2016 race, and his jeremiads against the billionaire class have all but made super PACs verboten in this race; he and Ms. Warren are refusing to hold high-dollar fund-raisers.Representative Ayanna Pressley of Massachusetts, who won her seat after defeating an incumbent Democrat last year, conceded that the first months of 2019 had inflicted growing pains on Democrats, but she argued it was merely a necessary side effect in the partys evolution.After we build that muscle, were going to flex it, Ms. Pressley said.Yet Mr. Biden, in speeches at home and abroad, has used much of the first part of this year pledging to restore the dignity he believes that the country has lost in the Trump years, promising a restoration rather than a revolution. And, as his supporters put it less subtly, his campaign would represent something else.Overwhelmingly, the primary electorate of the Democratic Party wants to win, Senator Chris Coons of Delaware said. He argued that Mr. Biden could repair a lot of the ways in which our position in the world has been harmed while offering a hopeful, optimistic, positive vision at home that would heal the divisions he said Mr. Trump has exacerbated.To such moderate Democrats, the most instructive recent election is not that of Mr. Trump in 2016 but rather the 2018 midterms, when many of the Democrats who won in battleground House districts and governors races were decidedly less confrontational than Mr. Sanders.The overwhelming majority of seats we picked up were by center-left candidates representing more centrist-type districts, said Representative Brendan Boyle of Pennsylvania, adding, Theres still lots of folks on our side who are O.K. with compromise.Other Democrats are even blunter, fretting that the party risks alienating the broad middle of the electorate at a moment Mr. Trump is making no attempt to appeal to such voters.You live for the day in politics when the other guy is conceding the majority of the country, said Larry Grisolano, a longtime Democratic strategist.Yet for many Democrats  especially younger voters who have largely known only Mr. Trump and another once-unlikely president for eight years before that  it is a hopelessly outdated notion that the party must be prudent about who it nominates and tread only within centrist confines on animating issues like climate change, racial justice and universal health care. These progressives have no more experience with a right-of-center, Reagan-era framework than their parents did with the New Deal.We have had enough of the centrist, corporatist Democratic  the type of Democrat that my mom would have voted for back in the 90s, said Jake Peters, a 23-year-old Iowan and Sanders volunteer who drove two hours to see him speak in Council Bluffs this week. We just dont have patience for the platitudes.And Mr. Trump has emboldened these young activists, heightening the urgency they feel about enacting a progressive agenda, and convincing them that Mr. Sanderss blunt-force message about injustice is whats needed to defeat the president. Chris Kivlahan, 22, who came to the Iowa City rally, described a Sanders presidency this way: I think if its going to happen, now is the time and Trump is the candidate to be running against.Democrats in Washington are seeing the tensions within the party firsthand as they try to balance an agenda that their newly elected moderates can support while also mollifying more liberal newcomers who are eager to impeach Mr. Trump and pursue far-reaching goals, such as the Green New Deal.A lot of young people have come into a world where there was more diversity, more opportunities and where they had use of social media, said Representative Elijah Cummings of Maryland about the expectations of next-generation activists and lawmakers, some of whom serve on the oversight committee he chairs. A guy like me, I had to fight to even get in the door.To tell some of these younger Democrats that a uncompromising progressive platform may be unattainable, let alone who can and cannot be elected president, is difficult given Mr. Trumps victory and the chasm they see between the scale of the problems they will confront and the policies in place today.And unlike many in the partys pragmatic wing, these Democrats believe the recipe for success in the general election is not to nominate another seemingly safe candidate like Hillary Clinton, who was unable to galvanize the base and lost crucial votes to a Green Party nominee, but to put forward somebody who will energize reluctant voters.Obviously weve shown that were at a place where were O.K. with nontraditional candidates, said Riley Wilson, a 29-year-old Nebraskan who crossed the Missouri River to see Mr. Sanders. He added: I think so many people just arent involved at all in politics, and I think he would be able to bring some of those people into the fold because theyll feel like they have options that they havent had before, politically speaking.And about the Republican strategy, led by Mr. Trump himself, to pin the socialism label on the Democrats in 2020?Senator Brian Schatz of Hawaii said it was mostly just his partys elite donor class that had anything to fear from a sweeping, progressive agenda.Well, them and the arbiters of conventional political wisdom, he added.What weve learned from last two presidential elections is that nobody knows anything, Mr. Schatz said of the election of former President Barack Obama and Mr. Trump. The people who write op-eds and stroke their chins and tell us how to win are the people who have been getting it wrong for almost two decades now.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Want to get California Today by email? Heres the sign-up.)Happy 2019.Last year was a big one in tech, as the Silicon Valley behemoths that drive large swaths of Californias economy faced mounting scrutiny over the way they handle our personal information and do business with one another.But it felt almost overwhelming trying to get a handle on everything that came to light. So I asked Pui-Wing Tam, our Tech editor, to put the revelations into some context.Jill Cowan: What was the most surprising thing your team uncovered this year and why?Pui-Wing Tam: So much happened in tech in 2018 that its hard to know where to begin. But the story line that emerged that I found the most surprising was the increasing activism of tech workers.Silicon Valley tech employees have historically seemed a docile lot, lured to the corporate campuses in Mountain View, Calif., San Jose and farther north in San Francisco by promises of fat compensation and a comfortable life.But in 2018, many engineers and other workers at companies like Google and Facebook began more publicly voicing their thoughts on a range of issues, including whether artificial intelligence should be used by the Pentagon, how to better treat sexual harassment victims, and how to embrace more diversity of thought in the workplace. They showed conscience, a heart, and a healthy amount of internal debate.What was the most disconcerting thing your team found this year?It was a year full of holy moly headlines about Facebook improperly handling our user data, Google working on a censored self engine for China, Amazon setting off surveillance alarm bells by selling facial recognition tech to the police, and domestic abusers using smart home technology to harass their victims. Most creepy of all was this column about Brian X. Chens experience downloading all the information that Facebook had ever collected on him.So by the end of the year, one of the most disconcerting things was wondering if tech even does any good any more.Fortunately, Farhad Manjoo reminded us of the personal power of how tech can help us store and surface our memories with a column about Google Photos. And Kevin Roose handed out a few awards for good tech.What story lines will be the most important in the year ahead?Well still be closely following how far this tech backlash goes. And in San Francisco, were looking for a big bump in conspicuous spending if a bunch of tech start-ups  including Uber, Lyft, Slack, Pinterest and others  manage to make their debut on the stock market, enriching their founders, employees, investors and the Tesla car dealer down the road.(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.) A blue wave swept Orange County in the midterms. But is that turnout sustainable or has it been a reaction to President Trump? [The New York Times] Sheriffs in California counties where suspected killers were in the country illegally have angrily decried the states so-called sanctuary law. But in Stanislaus and Tulare Counties, sheriffs have been careful to distinguish criminals from large populations of undocumented farm workers who havent been accused of crimes. [The Los Angeles Times] The Democratic senators Kamala Harris, Elizabeth Warren, Kirsten Gillibrand and Cory Booker are taking steps to prepare for 2020 presidential campaigns, hoping to capitalize on a more diverse vision of the future for the party. (Ms. Warren has already entered the race.) [The New York Times] Sam Liccardo, mayor of San Jose and an avid cyclist, was hospitalized after being hit by an S.U.V. on Tuesday afternoon. By evening, he was feeling well enough to joke in a statement: Fortunately, the doctors state that all defects to the head were pre-existing conditions. The driver was not arrested. [The Mercury News] Though live music ruled the Rose Parade, the annual show in Pasadena ended in confusion after a float caught fire and a tow truck that was called to take it away broke. No one was injured, fortunately. [The San Gabriel Valley Tribune] The terminally ill Yemeni toddler whose mother fought for a visa waiver to see him in California has died. [The New York Times] Overflows of human waste and garbage have forced some national parks, including Yosemite, to close some facilities during the government shutdown. Heres a list. [National Parks Traveler] Tesla is scrambling to sell cars before a tax break for buyers ends. [The New York Times] Cities like Portland, Oakland and Sacramento are increasingly worried about becoming San Francisco. San Francisco is worried about becoming Manhattan. But maybe everyone should be trying to become Minneapolis. [The New York Times]A writer for Vulture recently took Hollywood to task for routinely screwing up California geography. The latest culprit, wrote Jordan Crucchiola, is the new Transformers movie, Bumblebee, which takes place in a fictional town in the Bay Area that has impossible views of both the Richmond-San Rafael Bridge and the ocean.Another offender was the apparently time-bending road trips up and down the state in the second season of True Detective.While I, too, have shaken my head at loose interpretations of geography in the Golden State, what always really gets to me is when a show or movie thats supposed to take place somewhere else was obviously shot in California. I love Gilmore Girls, but every time I catch a glimpse of the scrubby brown mountains that somehow frame Stars Hollow, the picturesque, fictional Connecticut town, all I can think about is Burbank.Do you have a California-as-told-by-Hollywood pet peeve? Let us know at CAtoday@nytimes.com.California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.An earlier version of this article misstated the given name of a Democratic senator taking steps to prepare for a 2020 presidential campaign. She is Kirsten Gillibrand, not Kristin.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Ashley Calloway-Blatch and Lance BoothHere are the weeks top stories, and a look ahead.1. The partial government shutdown is over  for now.President Trump signed a bill on Friday reopening the federal government for three weeks, but he said he was ready to renew the confrontation or to bypass Congress altogether if Republicans and Democrats didnt agree on funds for a wall at the southern border by Feb. 15.The bill opened the way to paying the 800,000 federal workers who had been furloughed or had been working without pay. We talked with more than a dozen federal workers and contractors about how they survived the 35-day shutdown, and of the uncertainty they now face.According to Standard & Poors, the U.S. economy lost at least $6 billion during the shutdown  more than the $5.7 billion Mr. Trump was holding out for.Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And heres the front page of our Sunday paper, the Sunday Review from Opinion and our crossword puzzles.____2. Roger Stone, a former political adviser to President Trump, was indicted in the special counsels investigation after F.B.I. agents wearing ballistic vests and brandishing guns arrested him in a predawn raid of his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.The indictment states that a top Trump campaign official dispatched Mr. Stone, above, to get information from WikiLeaks about hacked Democratic emails, revealing the most direct link yet between parallel efforts by the Trump campaign and WikiLeaks to damage Hillary Clinton during the 2016 election using material stolen by Russians.Mr. Stone was charged with seven counts, including obstruction, making false statements and witness tampering.We mapped out the known interactions that Mr. Trump and at least 17 campaign officials and advisers had with Russian citizens and WikiLeaks, or their intermediaries, during the 2016 presidential campaign and transition.Some Republicans are recalculating Mr. Trumps political prospects, given the deep damage he suffered from the shutdown and the possibility that the Russia investigation will grow only more painful for him.____3. Juan Guaid, Venezuelas opposition leader, attended a rally Friday, above, in his first public appearance since he declared himself interim president of the country. He told supporters to maintain pressure on the authorities if they dare to kidnap me.At the same time, President Nicols Maduro, who had been furiously describing Mr. Guaid as the lackey of an American-backed coup plot, appeared to strike a more conciliatory approach. On Saturday, Mr. Maduro backed down from demanding that American diplomats leave the country this weekend.Opposition lawmakers and analysts said Mr. Maduro may sense that loyalty to him among the security forces may be slipping as support grows for Mr. Guaid, who earned the official recognition of the United States and more than 20 other countries.Our interviews with current and former military officers reveal a complicated struggle within the ranks over which leader to back.____4. The authorities in Florida  released the identities on Thursday of three of the five women who were killed by a gunman at a SunTrust Bank in Sebring, above, the day before.The authorities said the gunman made the women lie face down on the floor before he shot them in the back of the head, and then called the police to admit what he had done.The suspect, Zephen A. Xaver, 21, was arrested on Wednesday and charged with five counts of first-degree premeditated murder. The police said they didnt understand Mr. Xavers motive; the Sebring police chief said Mr. Xaver didnt know the victims and had no known connection to the SunTrust branch.Relatives of the two other victims asked that their names be withheld from the public, the police chief said, adding that he would honor those requests under the terms of a new crime victims law in Florida.____5. Record numbers of Americans understand that climate change is real and say the issue is personally important to them. Above, search teams after the Camp Fire in Paradise, Calif., last year.In a survey taken late last year, some 73 percent said global warming was happening  a jump of 10 percentage points from 2015 and three points since March. Ive never seen jumps in some of the key indicators like this, one of the researchers said.Conclusive data has been accumulating, including recent studies showing unexpectedly rapid melting in Greenland and the Arctic, and far quicker ocean warming than previously understood.____6. Action at the Supreme Court. The justices voted 5 to 4 on Tuesday to allow the Trump administration to bar most transgender people from serving in the military while cases challenging the policy make their way to the court. Above, Jody Davis, a transgender woman who is trying to rejoin the National Guard.The court also said on Tuesday that it would review a New York City gun law, its first Second Amendment case in nearly a decade.The justices took no action on the Trump administrations plans to shut down a program that shields some 700,000 young undocumented immigrants from deportation, which almost certainly means the court wont hear the administrations challenge in its current term.____7. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebooks chief executive, above, plans to integrate the social networks vast messaging services: WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook Messenger.The services will continue to operate as stand-alone apps, but their underlying technical infrastructure will be unified, according to four people involved in the effort.This could redefine how more than 2.6 billion people use the apps to connect with one another, our technology reporter notes, all while strengthening Facebooks grip on users and raising antitrust, privacy and security questions.____8. In the world of entertainment: James McAvoy hosted Saturday Night Live this week, which featured Steve Martin in a pinstriped suit as Roger Stone.Now that the dust has settled from Tuesdays announcement of Oscar nominees, our columnist examines what we can glean from who made it in and who didnt.And our critic-at-large Wesley Morris talks about the academys obsession with racial reconciliation fantasies, from 1989s Driving Miss Daisy to the recent Green Book and The Upside.____9. Novak Djokovic defeated Rafael Nadal for his seventh Australian Open championship this morning. It was the latest triumph in a thrilling career revival.And Naomi Osaka, above, bested Petra Kvitova in a riveting womens final on Saturday.Her victory in Melbourne, after winning the U.S. Open in September, made Ms. Osaka the first woman since Jennifer Capriati in 2001 to win her first two major titles back to back.More into football? The week is going to be a big buildup to Super Bowl LIII, when the New England Patriots and the Los Angeles Rams face off.____10. Finally, dont miss our Best Weekend Reads.This week, we talk to a laundry specialist who has washed clothes on tour for the likes of Madonna, U2 and Beyonc; look at how the growing noise in the worlds oceans is threatening wildlife; and examine a culture of discrimination and retaliation at a highly classified Energy Department site in Nevada.We also have the tale of Kenneth Griffin, a hedge-fund billionaire who just paid a record $238 million for a penthouse he may rarely live in.For more suggestions on what to read, watch and listen to, may we suggest these nine new books our editors liked, a glance at the latest small-screen recommendations from Watching, and our music critics latest playlist.Have a great week.Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Isabella Grulln PazFrom the shutdowns end to Roger Stones indictment, its been a busy week in American politics. Here are some of the biggest stories you might have missed (and some links if youd like to read further).___________________President Trump agreed Friday to reopen the federal government for three weeks while talks on securing the border proceed, backing down after failing to force Democrats to fund his long-promised wall.The announcement came after federal workers missed their second consecutive paycheck and flight delays rippled across the Northeast because of a shortage of air traffic controllers.Over the next three weeks, a House-Senate conference committee representing both parties will try to reach a consensus on a border security plan. Mr. Trump indicated that if lawmakers cannot strike a deal by Feb. 15, he is prepared to close the government again.The shutdowns effects will linger, despite the reopening. Taxpayers could face the most chaotic filing season in decades, and many federal workers still dont know when theyll be paid.Additional Reading Border Wall Is Out of Sync With the Southwests Changing Politics For a President Consumed With Winning, a Stinging Defeat Trump Blinks on Border Wall, and Some in His Base EruptWith an indictment of Roger J. Stone, Mr. Trumps longtime adviser, the special counsel revealed the most direct link yet between efforts by the Trump campaign and WikiLeaks to damage Hillary Clinton with material stolen by Russians. Heres more about the indictment of Mr. Stone, who was arrested by the F.B.I. on Friday, and here are four takeaways.Lawyers representing Paul Manafort, Mr. Trumps former campaign manager, denied accusations by the special counsels prosecutors that he had repeatedly lied to them. The lawyers said on Wednesday that Mr. Manafort was only guilty of memory lapses and innocent misstatements.Mr. Trumps former lawyer Michael Cohen on Wednesday indefinitely postponed his testimony before a House panel, with his lawyer citing the presidents verbal attacks on Mr. Cohen and his family. The Senate Intelligence Committee has issued a subpoena to compel Mr. Cohen to formally correct false testimony he gave last year about a proposed Trump Organization project in Moscow.Additional Reading  Roger Stones Dirty Tricks Put Him Where Hes Always Wanted to Be: Center Stage Everyone Whos Been Charged in Investigations Related to the 2016 Election 5 Times the Trump Administration Has Been Tougher Than Trump on Russia Huge Trove of Leaked Russian Documents Is Published by Transparency AdvocatesSenator Kamala Harris, the California Democrat and former prosecutor who is the second black woman to serve in the Senate, joined the presidential race on Monday. She declared her candidacy on Martin Luther Kings Birthday, a nod to its historic nature.Pete Buttigieg, the 37-year-old mayor of South Bend, Ind., also joined the Democratic field. A long-shot candidate, he may test the appeal of a youthful Midwestern profile over more traditional qualifications for the presidency.Meanwhile, Senator Elizabeth Warren and Senator Kristen Gillibrand spent the week shaping their campaigns.Ms. Warren is expected to propose a new tax on the 75,000 wealthiest families in the United States, another example of how Democrats are looking to tax the rich to reduce inequality. And campaigning in Iowa, Ms. Gillibrand emphasized her experience representing a conservative House district, hoping to ensure she is not pigeonholed as just another blue-state Democrat.Additional Reading Whos Running for President in 2020? As Beto ORourke Weighs 2020 Run, Democrats Chafe at His Go-It-Alone Style For Democrats, South Carolina Already Looms Large for the 2020 Race Hes made friends with autocrats around the world, but Mr. Trump has drawn a red line with Nicols Maduro, insisting that the Venezuelan leader give up power  the first such intervention in an anti-interventionist presidency. The Supreme Court revived Mr. Trumps policy of barring most transgender people from military service, letting the ban take effect temporarily while litigation continues. The court, however, took no action on the administrations challenge to the Dreamers program that lets young undocumented immigrants stay in the country, leaving the program in place. An American service member was killed by enemy fire in Afghanistan, the second United States combat death there this year. The United States plans to formally ask Canada to extradite Meng Wanzhou, chief financial officer of the Chinese tech giant Huawei, to stand trial for charges related to violating Iran sanctions. The Trump administration says it will start blocking a small number of asylum seekers from entering the United States from Mexico, moving forward with a new policy to turn back immigrants applying for refugee status. Representative Sheila Jackson Lee, a Democrat from Texas, will resign as chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation. A lawsuit accuses Ms. Lee of firing an aide who said she was sexually assaulted by a supervisor at the foundation. Americas corporate leaders are optimistic that 2019 will bring strong revenue growth, based largely on the assumption that Mr. Trump will make a trade deal with China. But they seem to be increasingly isolated in that view. Joni Ernst, the Republican senator from Iowa, said she was a survivor of sexual assault, speaking out reluctantly after personal details from her divorce were made public. Her story drew expressions of shock and support from lawmakers of both parties. Michael Ertel, Floridas newly installed secretary of state, resigned after a newspaper obtained photos of him wearing blackface in 2005, dressed as a Katrina victim for Halloween._____________________Todays On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grulln Paz in New York. Is there anything you think were missing? Anything you want to see more of? Wed love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe 1976 statute had flaws before President Trump took office. But his recent emergency declaration gives Congress an incentive to fix it.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.Congress is on the verge of formally repudiating a presidents national emergency declaration, a historic first. Last month, after losing a funding battle with Congress over his desire for a border wall, President Trump made his declaration, insisting that a national security crisis on our southern border precipitated his action. The Senate has mustered enough support to pass a joint resolution, introduced and approved in the House last month, calling for the immediate termination of a national emergency that represented an unprecedented end run around Congresss power of the purse.Mr. Trump has threatened to veto the resolution if it passes. Nonetheless, such a rejection from Congress would be healthy for the nations constitutional order. Among other things, itd demonstrate that the separation of powers still matters and that some Republican lawmakers  after two years of looking the other way  are willing to stand up to a president with no respect for constitutional boundaries.At the same time, the need for this legislative reprimand lays bare flaws in the National Emergencies Act, which Congress passed in 1976 to restrain executive power. Before the law, a president could declare a national emergency and unlock formidable powers under an array of statutes, giving him authority, according to a legislative analysis, to seize property and commodities, organize and control the means of production, call to active duty 2.5 million reservists, assign military forces abroad, seize and control all means of transportation and communication, restrict travel, and institute martial law, and, in many other ways, manage every aspect of the lives of all American citizens. The National Emergencies Act ended that regime, established limits on the duration of national emergencies and put an end to four longstanding emergencies  one of them dating to the start of the Korean War that the government had used as late as 1972 to justify actions in Vietnam.Senator Charles McC. Mathias, a Republican from Maryland who was a chief sponsor of the legislation, called President Gerald Fords signing of the bill a historic act of relinquishing powers of the presidency and envisioned it would be a tool for restoring constitutional democracy.But in the more than 40 years that the National Emergencies Act has been in effect, its been subject to few checks and balances. That Congress has never invoked its own authority under the act to rebuke a president until now is a sign of the statutes weaknesses.The resolution now before Congress serves mainly to nullify Mr. Trumps border emergency declaration. But further reforms are called for to protect the nation from future excesses.For one thing, the National Emergencies Act doesnt define what an emergency is  a loophole that Mr. Trump took advantage of by declaring that theres a crisis at the border, contrary to all evidence. Congress could set clearer parameters, allowing a president to declare emergencies only when threats to the national interest are imminent and based on observable facts.The current law also lets the president extend emergencies for years on end, simply by notifying Congress. Lawmakers would be wise to vest in Congress, rather than the president, the ability to extend an emergency. And even then, the time period for an emergency ought to be capped  no more semi-permanent emergencies of the sort that are still lingering on the books from as far back as the late 1970s. If a crisis becomes a nonemergency still requiring legislative action, Congress can address it the best way it knows how by passing a bill.The current standoff also shows that the law must be clarified to explain that being denied congressional funds toward achieving a policy goal is not, in fact, grounds for declaring an emergency. Last week, the House Judiciary Committee took a good step in this direction, holding a hearing on the status of the 1976 law and what can be done to fix it. There was bipartisan consensus that Congress needs to further limit the presidents discretion to declare emergencies.Strengthening the National Emergencies Act would erect a wall against any president, not just Mr. Trump, who insists on creating emergencies where none exist.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byGood Friday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today._____________________ The Senate voted to overturn President Trumps national emergency declaration at the southwest border, delivering a bipartisan rebuke for what lawmakers in both parties deemed executive overreach. The 59-41 vote on the House-passed measure sets up the first veto of Mr. Trumps presidency. House Republicans joined Democrats to demand that the Justice Department publicly release the full findings of Robert Muellers investigation into Russias interference in the 2016 election and the possible involvement of Mr. Trumps campaign. Three votes in Congress this week  rebuking Mr. Trump over Saudi Arabia, blocking his national emergency declaration and demanding a public release of the Mueller report  demonstrated a newfound willingness among some of Mr. Trumps Republican allies to stand up to him. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin has been personally pushing China to give the American film industry greater access to its markets. That has raised ethical questions, given his ties to Hollywood. Mr. Mnuchin signaled that he would block a congressional request to obtain Mr. Trumps tax returns on privacy grounds, setting up a potential legal battle if Democrats follow through. New evidence suggests that Russian spies used networks run by Aleksej Gubarev, a tech entrepreneur, to hack the Democratic Party in 2016  much as the so-called Steele dossier, which purported to detail Russian interference in the election, alleged. Facing billions of dollars in cleanup costs, the Pentagon is pushing the Trump administration to adopt a weaker standard for groundwater pollution caused by chemicals that have commonly been used at military bases. Afghanistans national security adviser accused the American special envoy of seeking personal benefit by sidelining the Afghan government in peace talks with the Taliban, increasing the legitimacy of the Taliban and decreasing the legitimacy of the Afghan government._____________________Todays On Politics briefing was compiled by Isabella Grulln Paz in New York.Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Is there anything you think were missing? Anything you want to see more of? Wed love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBest of Late NightBy Giovanni RussonelloWelcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous nights highlights that lets you sleep  and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If youre interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.Seth Meyers is tired of waiting for Joe Biden to announce whether hes running for president. Biden has been dropping hints, and members of his inner circle have leaked tidbits about his decision-making process. But no date has been set for an official announcement.Meyers said that there was hardly any ambiguity left  but that its still painful to have to wait.According to The Wall Street Journal, former Vice President Joe Biden has told several supporters that he intends to run for president in 2020. Oh my God, just announce already. Its like going to a Lou Bega concert and wondering if hes going to play Mambo No. 5. Hes going to.  SETH MEYERSJoe Biden is the kid you played hide and seek with who would hide behind a sheer curtain. We see you.  SETH MEYERSTrevor Noah was impressed that several of the Democratic candidates for president have expressed support for the possibility of issuing reparations to the descendants of slaves. When a clip came up of Senator Elizabeth Warren  who has apologized for claiming Native American ancestry in years past  articulating that view, Noah expressed a slightly more cautious form of optimism.Wow, that is really great to hear. Although I have my eye on you, Elizabeth Warren. I feel like as soon as reparations are passed, shell be like, Theres something I didnt tell you about my ancestry results. Im also one-20th black! Who knew? I accept cash, check or Apple Pay.  TREVOR NOAHAccording to a new poll, 55 percent of Americans are in favor of abolishing the Electoral College, but unfortunately because of the Electoral College, 55 percent is less than half.  SETH MEYERSI love the N.C.A.A. tournament, but my favorite part is the close-up shots of the chubby trombone player screaming at the camera. The band, wildly cheering for players who wont even say hello to them. I was in the band, I know.  JIMMY KIMMEL, celebrating the arrival of March MadnessThe race for the Democratic nomination has barely started, and its already getting crazy. Listen to this: Former Democratic Senator Mike Gravel is thinking about running at 88 years old. Eighty-eight. When they heard that, Bernie Sanders and Joe Biden were like, Hey, whos the new kid?  JIMMY FALLONHow can President Trump stomach attacking John McCain, a war hero and senator who died last year of brain cancer? I have another name for people who die, he says in this faux TV ad: life quitters.Jimmy Fallon played a guessing game with Julia Louis-Dreyfus, whose show Veep is about to start its last season.Lupita Nyongo is not following the Hollywood playbook. Shes following her passion.Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight:The 50 Best Movies on Netflix Right NowThe 25 Best Films of the 21st CenturyThe Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right NowAdvertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Heres the sign-up.) Good morning. British Parliament rejects Theresa Mays Brexit plan, President Trumps attorney general nominee testifies in Congress and gay penguins in Sydney learn to co-parent. Heres the latest: British lawmakers voted 432-to-202 against Prime Minister Theresa Mays plan to leave the E.U. It was the biggest defeat in the House of Commons in recent history.The turn of events thrusts Britain into further political chaos just 10 weeks before the countrys scheduled exit from the bloc.Whats next? The opposition leader Jeremy Corbyn put forward a motion of no confidence in Mrs. May, which Parliament will debate and vote on Wednesday. If the motion is successful, a new government will need to be formed in 14 days.Meanwhile, Mrs. May must now return to Parliament by Monday with a backup withdrawal plan. And if nothing is approved by March 29, Britain will make a no-deal exit from the E.U., which lawmakers have warned could be chaotic and pose grave economic risks. Here are some other ways this could all shake out.Go deeper: Heres a visual journey through Brexit, from the moment Britain voted to leave the E.U. in 2016 to the final vote today.President Trumps nominee to lead the Justice Department made assurances at his confirmation hearing Tuesday that he would allow the special counsel, Robert Mueller, to finish the Russia investigation, and promised to withstand any political pressure from the White House.It is in the best interest of everyone  the president, Congress and, most importantly, the American people  that this matter be resolved by allowing the special counsel to complete his work, the nominee, William Barr, said of the inquiry, which is believed to be in its final stages.With Republicans firmly in control of the Senate, his confirmation appears to be on track.Go deeper: Mr. Barr, who also served as attorney general under President George Bush, is known for his unusually expansive views of executive power. But during the hearing, he qualified some of his beliefs, emphasizing legal limits on the presidency and law enforcement independence. Ren Zhengfei, a legend in China akin to Steve Jobs, made a rare public appearance and denied claims that the technology giant was spying for Beijing.I love my country, he told a group of reporters. I support the Communist Party. But I will never do anything to harm any country in the world.They were his first public remarks since his daughter Meng Wanzhou, Huaweis chief financial officer, was arrested in Canada at the request of the U.S. last month. She is charged with trying to trick financial institutions into violating sanctions against Iran.Background: Huawei, founded in 1987, is the worlds largest telecommunications equipment maker  it had an estimated $100 billion in sales last year and sells more smartphones than Apple. Yet Mr. Ren rarely makes public appearances; he spoke to the news media for the first time in 2013.Huang Qi, one of the countrys most prominent online dissidents, went on trial on charges of leaking state secrets.Background: Mr. Huang founded the website 64 Tianwang in 1999. He was jailed twice before, first in 2000 for publishing articles by overseas dissidents and ethnic and religious critics. Then in 2010 for work uncovering corrupt building practices that contributed to the death toll of the 2008 earthquake in Sichuan.Why it matters: Mr. Huangs case has drawn intense international attention, in part because he suffers from a potentially fatal kidney disease. And after his 85-year-old mother sought help from foreign embassies to win his release, she was reportedly beaten and is now detained in a hospital.Whats next? Its unclear. American diplomats said they were denied access to the trial. One human rights group based in the U.S. said that no member of the public was allowed to attend and that one of Huangs lawyers was never told about the trial.El Chapo trial: In an incendiary accusation at the crime lords trial, a former cartel leader accused the former Mexican president President Pea Nieto of taking a $100 million bribe from drug traffickers.NATO: President Trump privately suggested several times last year that he wanted to withdraw the U.S. from the military alliance with Europe and Canada that has deterred Soviet and Russian aggression for 70 years. North Korea: The country is pursuing biological weapons that could present a more immediate threat to the world than its nuclear weapons program, according to new military analysis.Carlos Ghosn: The former Nissan chairman was denied bail in Tokyo and faces at least two more months in jail. His wife criticized Japans criminal justice system, writing that no human being should be detained under conditions so harsh that their only plausible purpose is to coerce a confession.Netflix: The company said it would raise prices by 13 to 18 percent for U.S. subscribers to help pay for original content, its biggest rate increase since it introduced streaming services 12 years ago.Saudi woman: Rahaf Mohammed Alqunun, who fled her home and was granted refugee status in Canada, is starting to adjust to her newfound freedom. I want to do crazy things Ive never done before, she told us in an interview.Gender achievement gap: Girls outperform boys in American schools, starting as early as kindergarten. But theres an exception: Asian-American boys dont start lagging behind until adolescence, according to a new study that points to the influence of social pressures.Speaking of Canada: The countrys air traffic controllers sent hundreds of pizzas to their American counterparts, who have been working without pay during the partial government shutdown.Gay penguins: Two male penguins in Australia are raising a chick together, capturing the hearts of a nation that made same-sex marriage legal just over a year ago. Love is love, said a manager at the Sea Life Sydney Aquarium.Change-4: Heres a look at what Chinas spacecraft has learned about the far side of the moon.Australian Open: Serena Williams, Novak Djokovic and Naomi Osaka advanced through the first rounds. Heres why female players will miss Andy Murray. And follow all our updates from Melbourne.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Pair spicy kimchi with mozzarella in a grilled cheese.Many women are reluctant to discuss reproductive health. Here are five issues we should be talking about.Puerto Rico is our No. 1 recommended spot to visit this year. The island is facing the jeopardy of climate change and deserves your attention.By some estimates, Chinas population of 1.4 billion is nearing its peak. To feed that many people, while using less land and water, the government is appealing to taste buds.For several years now, official policy has aimed to make the humble potato a culinary staple, alongside rice, wheat and corn.Potatoes can tolerate cold, drought and poor soil, and need less water, fertilizer, pesticide and labor. Since the 1990s, China has outstripped all other countries in production.Potatoes are hardly new to China. They were introduced about 400 years ago, and feature in beloved regional dishes, like the shredded Sichuan specialty called tudousi.But for starch, Chinese consumers prefer rice and noodles.One workaround is to process the tubers into potato flour, which is then mixed with wheat flour to make steamed bread, noodles and cakes. The government also promotes regional potato dishes, and supports the production of fries and potato chips.Claire Fu (???), a news researcher in our Beijing Bureau, wrote todays Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Peter Baker and Jim TankersleyWEST PALM BEACH, Fla.  President Trump, undaunted by perhaps the most bruising legislative defeat of his tenure, plans to kick off a fresh effort on Monday to pressure Congress to pay for a wall along the southwestern border, most likely setting up another showdown with Democrats who have vowed to block his signature project.Mr. Trump, who failed to extract even a single extra dollar for his wall during a winter battle that shut down parts of the federal government for a record 35 days, will request $8.6 billion in the annual budget proposal, aides said. He will also ask Congress for another $3.6 billion to replenish military construction funds he has diverted to begin work on the wall by declaring a national emergency, for a total of $12.2 billion.I would just say that the whole issue of the wall and border security is of paramount importance, said Larry Kudlow, the presidents top economic adviser. We have a crisis down there. Speaking on Fox News Sunday, Mr. Kudlow acknowledged that there will be a fight over the issue in Congress.That may be an understatement. Just as Mr. Trump has relentlessly made the wall his highest domestic priority as he gears up for a re-election bid next year, Democrats who took control in the House in January have made it a litmus test of their determination to stand up to his immigration policies.Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic minority leader, did not even wait for the new wall request to reach Capitol Hill before declaring it dead on arrival on Sunday.Congress refused to fund his wall, and he was forced to admit defeat and reopen the government, they said in a joint statement. The same thing will repeat itself if he tries this again. We hope he learned his lesson.The budget Mr. Trump will send Congress on Monday will serve more as a statement of values and a vehicle for political positioning than a plausible outline for how the government will actually raise and spend money in the 2020 fiscal year that begins Oct. 1. Aside from the proposed wall funding, administration officials said, the president will call for a sizable increase in military spending and significant cuts in domestic programs, neither of which Democrats are likely to accept.Mr. Trumps fiscal plan will also indicate that he will not balance the budget during his presidency even if he wins a second term, despite his campaign promise not only to eliminate the annual deficit but to pay off the entire national debt accumulated over generations as well. His budget blueprint promises a balanced budget only in 15 years, long after he will have left office, aides said, and even that is predicated on growth estimates that seem unrealistically inflated to independent economists.At a time when most economic forecasters see growth slowing in the United States and around the world, the budget projects American growth will actually rise this year  to 3.2 percent, up from 2.9 percent for 2018. That is nearly a full percentage point higher than the 2.3 percent forecast by the Federal Reserve.Kevin Hassett, the chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said on Sunday that administration economists expected continued boosts to growth this year from the $1.5 trillion in tax cuts that Mr. Trump signed in 2017, including further increases in labor force participation by older workers.Other economists have criticized the sustained forecast of 3 percent growth over a decade as overly optimistic. Mr. Hassett defended it by pointing to the administrations forecast for last year, which was only slightly above the actual growth rate. We have the same forecast we had last year, Mr. Hassett said, because we got last year precisely correct.The budget is the first of Mr. Trumps tenure to theoretically adhere to spending caps that Congress adopted under President Barack Obama, only to bust in the years since. But Mr. Trump accomplishes this only through budgetary legerdemain by pushing much of his 4.7 percent military spending increase out of the regular budget and into an account called Overseas Contingency Operations that has been used mainly to finance wars in Iraq, Afghanistan and Syria and has therefore been exempt from congressional caps.At the same time, domestic discretionary programs would be cut 5 percent, an idea certain to go nowhere with Democrats. Mr. Trump is hoping to avoid a repeat of last years budget deal, in which he was forced to agree to major domestic spending increases to secure his military boost. But he has even less sway now than he did last year, when Republicans controlled both houses of Congress.The overseas operations fund would receive $165 billion, compared with $69 billion this year, even as Mr. Trump is scaling back military operations in Afghanistan and Syria. The last time the fund had so much money was in the 2010 fiscal year, when the United States had nearly seven times as many troops in Afghanistan and Iraq.Among those who have criticized the overseas operations budget category as a slush fund is Mick Mulvaney, a Republican former congressman who served as Mr. Trumps first budget director and is now the acting White House chief of staff.On the wall, the president seems more intent on proving to conservatives his commitment to building it than to finding a compromise with Democrats. Administration officials said the new $8.6 billion Mr. Trump is seeking would enable him to complete the project, with a total of 700 miles of barriers, most of it new, though with some sections refurbished.Mr. Trump, who spent the weekend at his Mar-a-Lago estate in Florida, golfing and raising a reported $7 million for the coming elections, lashed out at Ann Coulter, the conservative commentator who has accused him of giving up too much on the wall.Wacky Nut Job @AnnCoulter, who still hasnt figured out that, despite all odds and an entire Democrat Party of Far Left Radicals against me (not to mention certain Republicans who are sadly unwilling to fight), I am winning on the Border, he wrote on Twitter on Saturday.Major sections of Wall are being built and renovated, he added, with MUCH MORE to follow shortly. Tens of thousands of illegals are being apprehended (captured) at the Border and NOT allowed into our Country. With another President, millions would be pouring in. I am stopping an invasion as the Wall gets built.In December, Mr. Trump refused to accept $1.375 billion for barriers along the border  though not steel or concrete walls  and demanded that Congress instead give him $5.7 billion, resulting in the partial government shutdown that left agencies closed and 800,000 workers without pay.After five weeks, he gave in and agreed to reopen the government without concessions by the Democrats. The spending deal that ultimately passed both the Democratic-controlled House and the Republican-controlled Senate included just the $1.375 billion he had originally turned down.He signed grudgingly but then declared a national emergency to justify raiding $3.6 billion from a military construction fund for wall money. Relying on a presidents more traditional authority to move money around in limited ways, he also diverted another $3.1 billion from counternarcotics programs and an asset forfeiture fund. Combined with the $1.375 billion, that gave him about $8 billion for border barriers.Democrats and some Republicans objected to the national emergency declaration on the grounds that Mr. Trump was abusing the Constitution by appropriating money that Congress had explicitly refused to spend for that purpose. The House has voted to overturn his declaration, and enough Republicans have signaled that they will join Democrats to do the same in the Senate, presumably prompting what would be the first veto of Mr. Trumps presidency. Critics do not have enough votes to override his veto, but lawsuits have been filed seeking to block his move.The budget to be unveiled on Monday would backfill the $3.6 billion from military construction projects, but officials did not say whether the other diverted money would be restored.Given the anger on the left over the national emergency declaration, it seemed hard to imagine that Democrats would agree to sanction it by reimbursing the money he took. This ridiculous request, like the rest of the Trump budget, is not even worth the paper its written on, said Representative Nita M. Lowey, Democrat of New York and the chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee.Peter Baker reported from West Palm Beach, Fla., and Jim Tankersley from Washington. Reporting was contributed by Alan Rappeport, Michael Tackett, Nicholas Fandos and Chris Cameron from Washington.Follow Peter Baker and Jim Tankersley on Twitter: @peterbakernyt and @jimtankersley.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Ana SwansonWASHINGTON  President Trump said the United States would keep tariffs on $50 billion worth of Chinese goods in place even if the two sides reached a trade deal, channeling a tougher approach as his negotiators head to Beijing this weekend for a crucial round of talks.Mr. Trumps remarks, made in a television interview that aired Friday, are likely to unsettle Chinese negotiators, whose main goal in the talks is to convince the United States to remove as many of the $250 billion worth of tariffs that have been imposed.While Mr. Trump had agreed late last month not to raise tariffs on Chinese goods, the administration is now coalescing around the need to retain at least some of the tariffs as it looks for a way to ensure that China keeps whatever promises it makes in a trade agreement.Robert Lighthizer, Mr. Trumps top trade adviser, prefers to phase out many of the tariffs over time as China proves its willingness to follow through with economic reforms sought by the Trump administration, people familiar with his thinking say. But it is unclear whether China will make enough concessions to satisfy the United States if the tariffs remain in effect.The two sides are now pushing for a summit in late April to sign a trade deal.I think were getting very close, the president said in an interview aired on Fox Business Network Friday morning. That doesnt mean we get there, but I think were getting very close.The deal is not public, and its contents are not exactly clear. But people familiar with the negotiations say the outcomes would include hundreds of billions of dollars of purchases of American products, an agreement by China to end its longstanding practice of pressuring companies to hand over technology and trade secrets and reducing certain barriers to American companies who operate in China, including financial firms.Still, politicians on both sides of the aisle have been suspicious that China is making promises that may be too vague to be enforceable and recycling old commitments it has made to past administrations. They have cautioned the Trump administration against being too eager to strike a deal.Nows not the time to drop $200B in tariffs just because Chinas close to a deal, Charles E. Schumer, the Senates Democratic leader from New York, tweeted at the president Thursday. For US workers, a deal with China that loosens any tariffs before we can verify Chinas keeping their end of the bargain would render the agreement useless.The talks appear to have bogged down over how the deal will be enforced. The United States is insisting that it be able to reimpose tariffs without any input or retaliation from China if there is any infringement of the agreement. But China has rejected such a mechanism as potentially compromising its sovereignty.Administration officials have appeared less publicly optimistic about the prospects for a deal in recent days, perhaps in an effort to portray a tougher stance as talks enter the final stages.Some will come down, but it is doubtful as the president said today that we will remove all the tariffs all at once, Larry Kudlow, the White House senior economic adviser, said Thursday, adding we want to see how they do.Mr. Kudlow said the administration has asked China not to retaliate if the United States reimposes tariffs, but did not specify on Thursday whether China had agreed to that request.Its not moving as quickly as we believe it should, Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue said this week in an interview with the Financial Times. I almost think its a trade negotiation strategy: They get you hopeful and optimistic and then its definitely two steps forward, one step backward.The president also criticized the World Trade Organization and the European Union in the interview and praised his own efforts to rewrite the rules of trade through updating the North American Free Trade Agreement.He also said that the European Union had offered to reduce tariffs on automobiles to zero on both sides of the Atlantic, but that he would not accept such a deal.Theyve offered me that, the president said. The problem is that the Chevrolet will never be accepted in Europe like the Mercedes is accepted here, so its not a good deal.Administration officials had previously said that the goal of talks with Europe was getting to zero subsidies and zero tariffs across the Atlantic.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Robert PearWASHINGTON  Attacking the secretive nature of pricing in the health care market, the Trump administration said this week that it wanted to require public disclosure of the rates that doctors and hospitals negotiate with health insurance companies.Patients have a right to price information before they receive care, the administration said.Disclosure of the wildly different prices paid by insurers for the same services in the same market would probably incite competition and drive down health care prices, the administration said in soliciting comment on its idea.The concept, set forth Monday in the Federal Register and reported by The Wall Street Journal, is not a formal proposal, but rather a first step toward a possible proposal, clearly signaling the direction in which President Trump wants to go.Price transparency has been a hallmark of health policy under Mr. Trump. In a country that spends more than $3.5 trillion a year on health care, administration officials say, it is absurd that consumers cannot shop for medical goods and services as they shop for airline tickets and electronic gear.There is no more powerful force than an informed consumer, Alex M. Azar II, the secretary of health and human services, has often said, exhorting health care providers and insurers to become more transparent about their pricing.It was not immediately clear whether the price disclosures contemplated by the White House would directly benefit consumers shopping for a knee replacement operation or the delivery of a baby at a hospital.Price transparency is desirable, Robert Weissman, the president of Public Citizen, a consumer group, said on Friday. But, he said, the disclosure requirement described by the Trump administration wont make any difference in the experience of individual patients or for the health care system over all.What consumers want to know is what they will have to pay, and that is not the same as the reimbursement rates negotiated by doctors, hospitals and insurers, Mr. Weissman said.In a similar vein, the administration has proposed requiring pharmaceutical companies to disclose the list prices of prescription drugs they advertise on television, even though consumers often pay less. And the administration has required hospitals to post the list prices for all of their services. Consumers say the data, posted online in spreadsheets for thousands of procedures, is often incomprehensible  a hodgepodge of numbers and technical medical terms.In its latest proposal, the administration asked if health care providers could be required to disclose the negotiated rates for all of the insurance plans with which they do business.Thomas P. Nickels, an executive vice president of the American Hospital Association, said this was a radical idea, requiring the disclosure of privately negotiated rates between two parties in a contract.Moreover, Mr. Nickels said, it would be impractical because a hospital may have contracts with a dozen insurers, and each insurer may have four or five different health plans with different terms.The new initiative to require disclosure of price information came in an unusual way, slipped into the preamble to a proposed rule promoting the exchange of information stored in electronic health records. In 2009, Congress provided money to foster the adoption of electronic records, but health care providers cannot always communicate with one another when they use technology made by different vendors.Economists say health care markets are opaque and frustrate consumers who want to shop for the best value.Martin Gaynor, a professor of economics and health policy at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, said it was possible shining sunlight on the rates paid to doctors and hospitals could put pressure on the industry to lower prices. But in some places, hospitals have market power and can raise prices without losing customers to competitors.If you are the only hospital in town, any insurer will have to have you in its network, Mr. Gaynor said. The fact that prices are public will not change that.The Trump administration said that its plan could reduce huge, inexplicable differences in prices.In Minnesota, it said, insurers pay as much as $47,000 and as little as $6,200 for a total knee replacement operation. For a total hip replacement, payments have ranged from $6,700 to $44,000.Reimbursement for a typical vaginal delivery of a baby ranged from $2,900 to $12,300 in one study of Minnesota markets, while C-section deliveries ranged from $4,700 to $22,800.The American Medical Association and Americas Health Insurance Plans, a lobby for insurers, said they needed more information about the administrations plan before they could formulate a response.A research report by securities analysts at Jefferies L.L.C. said the plan faced legal hurdles. Contract details between managed care organizations and health care providers are covered by confidentiality clauses, so forcing hospitals to post negotiated prices will require hard-to-achieve legislative action, they wrote.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThree (provisional) reasons not to put the president on trial.By Ross DouthatOpinion ColumnistYou could argue that the month of January has very modestly raised the odds that Donald Trump will not finish his term as president.First, the government shutdown has demonstrated that Trumps own incompetence suffices to cost him support in the polls and in the Senate  an indication that a larger crumbling of his political firewall might be possible.Second, the indictment of Roger Stone, based on his lies to Congress about outreach to WikiLeaks, keeps open the possibility of future revelations of conspiracy implicating Trump himself.Finally, there has been a burst of media interest in impeachment  an Atlantic cover story by Yoni Appelbaum prodding Democrats to take the plunge, and a more cautious essay by my colleague David Leonhardt putting the option on the table.[Listen to The Argument podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]Im open to these arguments; indeed, I have to be, since Im on the record urging this presidents removal from office using the unusual remedy of the 25th Amendment. But there are several difficulties with the current briefs for impeachment, which suffice for now to keep a Pence presidency out of reach.The first is the gulf between the democracy-subverting powers that the briefs ascribe to Trump and the actual extent of his influence. In Appelbaums essay, the president is charged with nothing less than having trampled on the liberties guaranteed by the Constitution. But many of his examples feature Trump failing to actually trample anything. He did his best to enact a Muslim travel ban (the actual ban was limited and upheld by the Supreme Court), he has called for the firing of political enemies (with little discernible result), he has made efforts to impede the Mueller investigation (which continues apace), and so on down the list of outrages that exist primarily on his Twitter feed.Much of the case for trampling, then, is a case against Trumps rhetoric. And one can acknowledge that rhetorics evils while doubting that the ranting of a president so hemmed in, unpopular and weak is meaningfully threatening the Constitution.Especially because of the second problem with the case for impeachment, which might be summed up in a line from a poem that Trump often quoted in 2016: You knew damn well I was a snake before you took me in. Meaning, in this case, that little about his rhetorical excess, his penchant for lies and insults or the seaminess of his courtiers was hidden from voters on the campaign trail in 2016, in an election that by the Constitutions standards Trump legitimately won.The electorates foreknowledge of a politicians sleaziness doesn't preclude impeachment. But it means that there is, at least, a quantum of sleaze that the president's supporters voted to accept. And the closer we get to a new election  including another primary campaign  the stronger the case for asking voters to retract that endorsement, instead of pre-empting their judgment from on high.The rebuttal here is that the danger of keeping Trump in office is too great  a point with which I sympathize, because I fear Trumps incapacity in an unlooked-for crisis. But Im more doubtful about the policy dangers that are supposedly evident right now.Appelbaum, for instance, analogizes Trumps race-baiting to Andrew Johnsons efforts to impede Reconstruction in the late-1860s South. But when he was impeached, Johnson was literally using his veto to abet the possible restoration of white supremacy. Whereas Trump is conspicuously losing a fight over some modest border fencing, and his last race-inflected policy move was  a criminal justice reform supported by many African-Americans. The president may be a bigot, but the policy stakes do not remotely resemble 1868.Then there are the geopolitical risks of Trumps alleged Russian loyalties. After the Stone arrest, Appelbaums Atlantic colleague David Frum deemed these too severe to wait even for Robert Muellers verdict: But now  now!  the country is in danger.But in the absence of Mueller-stamped evidence, what we have to prove that peril is Trumps actual foreign policy, which is erratic but frequently quite unfriendly to Moscow  with the administrations effort to subvert the Russian-aligned Maduro regime in Venezuela just this weeks example.Which makes it entirely reasonable to wait to see whether Mueller vindicates the various uncorroborated scoops about a conspiracy hatched in Prague or the Ecuadorean Embassy, rather than trying to impeach Trump for, say, his private griping about NATO.At the end of my invoke-the-25th-Amendment column I wrote, There will be time to return again to world-weariness and cynicism as this agony drags on. That was month four of this presidency; as we approach month 25 I suppose I have become that world-weary cynic.But like all cynics I prefer to call it realism. If you want Trump gone, the existing case for impeachment will not do it. You must either prove him  not Stone or some other hanger-on, but him  guilty of conspiracy, or accept that he will depart only when he is beaten at the polls.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTOpinion) and Instagram, join the Facebook political discussion group, Voting While Female.Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.

You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byletterA Pentagon official says there has been no effect on command guidance after the president announced his nominee to be the next chairman.To the Editor:Trump Accomplished the Military, He Says. But Experts Disagree (news analysis, Feb. 10) asserts that the announcement of the nominee to be the next chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff has undermined the authority of the current chairman, Gen. Joseph F. Dunford Jr., and sown confusion about command guidance throughout the military. In fact, there has been no effect on General Dunfords ability to perform his statutory duty of providing his military advice to the secretary of defense and the president. Furthermore, the longstanding and proven process by which senior command guidance is communicated from the Office of the Secretary of Defense to the Office of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs and military chains of command worldwide remains crystal clear and effective.Patrick S. RyderWashingtonThe writer, an Air Force colonel, is special assistant for public affairs to the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byGood Tuesday morning. Here are some of the stories making news in Washington and politics today._____________________ Senator Bernie Sanders, the Vermont independent and 2016 Democratic primary runner-up whose populist policy agenda has helped push the party to the left, announced this morning that he was running for president again. His bid will test whether he can retain the anti-establishment appeal he enjoyed with many liberal voters three years ago. A coalition of 16 states, including California and New York, challenged President Trump in court over his plan to use emergency powers to fund his border wall. The suit argues that the president does not have the power to divert money for constructing a wall along the Mexican border because it is Congress that controls spending. Barack Obama does not plan to make an endorsement in the 2020 primary. But that doesnt mean hes sitting the race out  behind the scenes, he has counseled more than a dozen likely candidates on how best to beat President Trump. In interviews over the last month with about three dozen Democratic voters, almost all of them said the controversy around Senator Elizabeth Warren claiming Native American ancestry was overblown. Ms. Warrens plan for a new wealth tax represents a more substantial rethinking of the governments approach to taxation than anything a major presidential candidate has proposed in recent memory. Heres how it would work. Senator Kamala Harris visited New Hampshire on Monday for the first time in her life. She faced questions from national reporters about her political ideology, followed by a town-hall-style forum with a big crowd of more than 1,000 voters. Mr. Trump, speaking in Miami on Monday, said the Venezuelan president Nicols Maduros days were numbered. His remarks were seen by some in South Florida as a bid to win over what may be a crucial bloc of voters in the 2020 presidential race. A senior North Korean official known as Kim Jong-uns butler has begun scouting hotels, factory sites and resorts in Vietnam ahead of the North Korean leaders second summit meeting with Mr. Trump in Hanoi next week. Did Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan nominate President Trump for the Nobel Peace Prize? Mr. Trump suggested he did, but Mr. Abe would not comment._____________________Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Is there anything you think were missing? Anything you want to see more of? Wed love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBooks of The TimesBy Dwight GarnerWhen Chris Christie first met Donald Trump, over dinner at the Manhattan restaurant Jean-Georges in 2002, the developer ordered for both of them. This power move has received insufficient study. When Zadie Smith met Jay-Z, he did this to her, too. Apparently, she wrote about the encounter, I look like the fish-sandwich type.Trump had waiters bring Christie the seared scallops and the roasted lamb loin. Im allergic to scallops, Christie recalls in his new memoir, Let Me Finish: Trump, the Kushners, Bannon, New Jersey, and the Power of In-Your-Face Politics. He adds, Ive always hated lamb.The future governor of New Jersey was gleaning lessons in domination. He was an apt pupil. Let Me Finish is a superficial and ungainly book that tries to cover so many bases at once  its a series of attacks and justifications, its a master class in sucking up and kicking down, its a potted memoir, its a stab at political rehabilitation  that reading it is like watching an octopus try to play the bagpipes.At heart its a reminder that, before Bridgegate, before the 2016 presidential election and before the infamous photographs of him sunbathing on a closed beach during a 2017 state government shutdown, Christie was the favorite political intimidator of many Americans. An alternative title for this unintentionally poignant book might have been, You Used to Really Like Me, Remember?On YouTube, you can still find Christies insult highlight reels. Listen, pal, hed respond to a question. Hed call reporters and others idiot or dope or stupid. Hed say, I look like Tony Soprano, for godsakes.Christie managed to be almost cuddly while dispatching this contumely. With his fleece sweaters and his quasi-bipartisan approach (a Republican governor in a blue state), he seemed more like an excitable high school football coach than a mentally unstable uncle.He had a saving sense of humor. Hed surely seen the bumper stickers about his weight, the ones that read, My governor can eat your governor. When he appeared on Late Show With David Letterman in 2013, he pulled a jelly doughnut out of his coat pocket and took a bite. I didnt know this was going to be this long, he deadpanned.Because Christie was positioned to be the brashest candidate in 2016, he had the most to lose from a Trump insurgency. He saw the threat instantly. After the first Republican debate, he said to his wife, Weve got a problem.From a stylistic perspective, Christie writes, he was everything I was  but on jet fuel. Christie must have felt like Ewan MacColl, or some other acoustic folkie, watching Bob Dylan plug into his amplifiers at the Newport Folk Festival.After he dropped out of the 2016 race, Christie became the first governor to endorse Trump. He climbed aboard a Trump campaign that, in this telling, as in so many others, sounds like a train that loses one conductor and six hobos at every turn.Christie drew on his long friendship with Trump and became a close adviser. Often enough, in his own estimation, he was the only adult in the room. He nearly became Trumps running mate.He was repeatedly stymied by Jared Kushner, Trumps son-in-law. Like a fawn, Kushner is seen in this book grazing on what Christie calls his typical salad.Bambi was bent on payback. Christie had helped send Kushners father, the prominent New Jersey real estate developer Charles Kushner, to prison in a lurid case that involved tax evasion and witness tampering. According to Steve Bannon, Christie writes, Jared Kushner was obsessed with destroying me. Every chair Christie sat in had a trap door underneath.Christie saves his real fire in this book  which was written by a ghostwriter named Ellis Henican  for Bannon, the one-time chief executive of Trumps campaign. He calls Bannon self-impressed, a snake and the only person I have ever met who can look pretentious and like an unmade bed at the very same time.Christie accuses Bannon of peddling lies about him to Bob Woodward, among other journalists. More crucially, he remains apoplectic over Bannons decision, alongside other advisers, to toss out Christies monumental 30-volume plan for Trumps transition.This sounds like some document. In addition to a list of vetted candidates for each cabinet post and numerous other leadership roles, Christie writes, We had a day-one plan and a 100-day plan once the administration started. We had a 200-day plan after that.Trump didnt want to talk about the transition. Bad karma, he thought. Cmon, Chris, just close it down, Trump told him. Chris, you and I are so smart, and weve known each other for so long, we could do the whole transition together if we just leave the victory party two hours early!Expecting Trumps other senior advisers to read 30 volumes, especially from Christie, was like waiting for monkeys to begin typing Shakespeare. In Christies view, trashing the transition plan was the original sin of the Trump administration.The president didnt get the right people. Instead he got the revolving door of deeply flawed individuals  amateurs, grifters, weaklings, convicted and unconvicted felons  who were hustled into jobs they were never suited for, sometimes seemingly without so much as a background check via Google or Wikipedia.If Trump had only listened to him, Christie writes, he would have fired James B. Comey, then director of the F.B.I., at the start of his administration. His later firing would become, according to Bannon, the worst mistake in modern political history.If you skim through Let Me Finish, riffling the book like a deck of cards, nearly all you will see is Christie saying, in so many words, I told you so.He told Trump that retired Lt. Gen. Michael T. Flynn was trouble. He told Trump to stop picking on Khizr Khan, the Gold Star father. He was the only one who could tell Trump when hed done poorly in a debate. He needed someone from the world of politics he could talk to, Christie writes. Being his peer was a key part of the role that I played.Christies sense of being right at every moment is wearying. Like a fan that blows for too long, his grille fills with dust.As a literary performance, this book is nylon, not wool or silk. About his relationship with his brother while growing up, we read: We fought. We laughed. We played.If you want to read an excellent book about Christie and about New Jersey politics, find a copy of Matt Katzs 2016 biography, American Governor: Chris Christies Bridge to Redemption. Its cleareyed but sympathetic. Christie is vastly more likable in it than he is here.Christie takes care of some old business in Let Me Finish. He says he didnt order or encourage the bridge lane redirections. He didnt hug Barack Obama in the wake of Hurricane Sandy. He was only out there on the closed beach for a short time.Trump himself comes off rather well in this book. Christie remains a believer. He praises Trump as a father. He writes: He knows who he is and what he believes in. He has a keen understanding of what regular people are feeling. He commands extraordinary loyalty from his supporters and has unique communication skills. He thinks its not too late for Trump to turn things around.Is Let Me Finish a plea to be let back in, at a high level, to Trumps administration? Is it a platform from which to run for president in 2020 if Trump drops out? It seems unlikely that Christie will be content to continue wandering the earth like a masterless samurai, a ronin.Do voters want him back? This self-serving book doesnt make the most appealing case. Is anyone longing for another in-your-face president? And does he have too much baggage? It may be true that, as Karl Ove Knausgaard put it in one of his My Struggle novels, Whats done is dung and cannot be undung.Follow Dwight Garner on Twitter: @DwightGarner.Let Me Finish: Trump, the Kushners, Bannon, New Jersey, and the Power of In-Your-Face PoliticsBy Chris Christie with Ellis Henican420 pages. Hachette Books. $28.Follow New York Times Books on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram, sign up for our newsletter or our literary calendar. And listen to us on the Book Review podcast.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayAn illustration from Biddy Mason Speaks UpBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Heres the sign-up, if you dont already get California Today by email.)When you think of the people who built Los Angeles, the names that most likely jump to mind  William Mulholland, the Chandlers  are often those of white men. Its not surprising, and its not unusual among American cities.Thats why, when I heard Laura Atkins, a Berkeley-based childrens book author, mention Bridge Mason, known as Biddy, on an episode of the podcast East Bay Yesterday, I took note.Ms. Mason, she said, had been born enslaved, won her freedom in a California court in the mid-1850s and eventually became a prominent downtown L.A. landowner  not to mention the growing metropoliss richest woman.She organized the citys First A.M.E. church and was a philanthropist.Its Black History Month, so Ive been thinking about what it means to honor the legacies of people whom history has traditionally left out.Ms. Atkins and Arisa White, a poet, have written a book about Ms. Masons life, Biddy Mason Speaks Up, part of a series about civil rights leaders. So I asked them how they decided to write about her and about different ways of thinking about historical figures.A lot of what we thought about was the idea of the kind of linear, heroic narrative, where theres one singular person who saves the day, versus more of a feminist recovery project, Ms. White said. We have to amass Biddy Masons story by pulling through different threads.The book, which is illustrated by Laura Freeman, alternates between a story told from Ms. Masons perspective and pages that are filled with definitions of words like power, race, and westward expansion, as well as timelines and discussion questions for readers about how those themes play out in their own lives.On one page, the authors ask: Have you ever been taken away from someone you love?On another: What does freedom mean to you?Ms. White said she was also excited to highlight a different way of building wealth. Ms. Mason worked as a midwife and a healer who used herbal remedies her enslaved grandmother had taught her.Among her clients were some of L.A.s richest residents, including Pio Pico, the last governor of Mexican California.Its bringing to life a different kind of intelligence that I dont think young readers access when they think about enslaved people, she said.Ms. Atkins said she knew that the idea of reframing history through a feminist, collectivist lens might sound a little too, well, Berkeley for a lot of educators.But she said she had been heartened by the response.Weve gotten some real love from people out in the world and appreciation for the way it empowers students to engage, she said.(A note: We often link to content on sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but wed also encourage you to support local news if you can.) There is a crisis here but it has nothing to do with immigration. How the New River, which Mexico treats as a drain, brings noxious waste and pollution into the Imperial Valley. Residents say their health is suffering as a result. [The New York Times] Two transgender women from Honduras joined a migrant caravan. Only one survived the grueling 2,700-mile journey to San Francisco. Their plight illustrates the dangers for L.G.B.T. migrants, who often face violence and discrimination in their home countries. [The San Francisco Chronicle] Congressional negotiations over a border security deal broke down on Sunday, ahead of deadlines meant to avert another government shutdown. The impasse appears to center on Democrats demands that there be a limit to the number of unauthorized immigrants already in the country who could be detained by ICE officers. [The New York Times] Michel Moore, chief of the Los Angeles Police Department, defended an elite division of officers that an investigation found had been profiling black drivers. His comments came not long after Mayor Eric Garcetti ordered the department to scale back vehicle stops in response to the findings. [The Los Angeles Times] California Republicans are looking for a new party chair. After stinging losses in November, some are pushing to double down on President Trumps agenda. But if they do that, one strategist said, Its over. [The Los Angeles Times] As Silicon Valleys current crop of highly valued start-ups (think Uber and Airbnb) mature and prepare to go public, opportunities to disrupt established industries are fewer and farther between. [The New York Times] So what will the next crop of unicorns look like? Here are 50 start-ups that might fit the bill. [The New York Times] Allensworth, a southern San Joaquin Valley town, was founded as a kind of refuge from racism and segregation. Its the only one in California that was built, financed and home to African Americans. At its height in the early 20th century, it was a thriving community. Heres its fascinating story. [The Fresno Bee] Tet in Orange County isnt your great-grandmothers festival. Over time, its become part county fair, part beach party  and thats not a bad thing. [The Los Angeles Times] So, like, theres a new art exhibit in Glendale that explores what it means to be a Valley girl. But, like, actually  not just the stereotypes. [The New Yorker] Samin Nosrat visited her friend Hrishikesh Hirway in L.A. for homemade mango pie. Heres the recipe for the very American dish inspired by Indian aunties. [The New York Times]The Grammy Awards are advertised as musics biggest night.But like the Oscars, the Recording Academy has struggled to hang onto cultural relevance in the face of controversy and a changing industry.Many of musics biggest names (Beyonc, Kendrick Lamar, Ariana Grande) were absent. And even though the telecast was hosted by Alicia Keys and was stacked with strong performances by female artists, it was tough to forget that the Academy was atoning for its outgoing presidents statement last year that women need to step up, in response to claims that it had overlooked their work.My colleague Jon Pareles wrote, Year after year, I have dutifully watched the Grammy Awards. And the next morning, year after year, I have wondered why.Still, the awards shine a valuable spotlight on lesser known artists, like ngela Aguilar, an Angeleno who was this years youngest nominee.If you want to catch up, find The Timess coverage here. And here are all the winners.California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles  but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.An earlier version of this article misspelled the given name of the Los Angeles police chief. He is Michel Moore, not Michael.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byWhite House MemoBy Katie RogersWASHINGTON  As he prepared to finally emerge from the White House on Monday morning, after days of complaining that he had been cooped up there waiting for Democrats to negotiate with him to end a 24-day government shutdown, President Trump momentarily seemed to forget where he was headed.Getting ready to address the Farm Convention today in Nashville, Tennessee, the president said in a Twitter message. See you in a little while.Farmers in Tennessee would have to wait: Mr. Trump was actually scheduled to visit an agricultural conference in Louisiana on Monday. And when he did, he was on the ground for little more than two hours before flying back to the White House.Mr. Trump has made it a repeated point of pride that he has been confined to the capital in recent weeks while waiting for his Democratic adversaries to give in and agree to spending $5.8 billion on his border wall, but he has actually been stuck in what his allies say is an uncomfortable limbo. It has made him wax wistfully about being unable to visit Mar-a-Lago, his gilded bunker by the sea where if members disagree with him on anything  from the firmness of the house meatloaf recipe to his isolationist approach to foreign allies  they tend to keep those opinions to themselves.So, unable to resume his weekend routine of soliciting friendly advice from club members on the patio or spending sunny mornings at his nearby golf club, Mr. Trump has tried to make the snowy confines of Washington feel more like his Palm Beach cocoon.The results are mixed.Since the shutdown began Dec. 22, Mr. Trump has left the White House fewer than 10 times. He has shared his shut-in routine with America: When not at work in the Oval Office, he has frittered away the hours by watching the multiple flat-screen TVs installed in the White House residence, gazing out of secured windows, tweeting at his enemies and phoning his friends.Wish I could share with everyone the beauty and majesty of being in the White House and looking outside at the snow filled lawns and Rose Garden, Mr. Trump tweeted on Sunday as the chaos of an embittered capital was all but silenced by snow. Melania Trump, the first lady, then shared a photo of the wintry wonderland to give Americans a visual.But the flurry of tweets Mr. Trump sent shortly afterward attacking assorted perceived foes, including Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, his first announced Democratic opponent in 2020, and the billionaire Jeff Bezos, seemed to show that not even the most dedicated of homebody presidents is immune from a bout of cabin fever.I think it was harmful to him psychologically that he didnt make it down here over the holidays, Laurence Leamer, a longtime Palm Beach resident who has known Mr. Trump since the 1990s and has written a book on Mar-a-Lago, wrote in an email. Despite his impulsive exterior, hes a man of routine, and thats what Mar-a-Lago is all about.Both Mr. Trump and White House officials have said that he will remain in Washington for as long as the shutdown persists, though allies expect him to give in and make an appearance in Palm Beach over the long Martin Luther King Jr. Day weekend.In a statement, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, Mr. Trumps press secretary, said the president was at work whether he was at the White House, one of his personal properties or riding on Air Force One.The president is always working, Ms. Sanders said. During the time leading up to the shutdown and since, he has been almost entirely at the White House working to find solutions to deal with the humanitarian and national security crisis at our southern border.Democrats, Ms. Sanders added, have spent their time at beach resorts, watching Broadway shows and attending cocktail receptions with lobbyists.Ms. Sanders was referring to a trip organized by the political arm of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, which flew three dozen or so House members to San Juan for two days of receptions and meetings on the damage to the island from Hurricane Maria as well as a performance of Hamilton with its creator, Lin-Manuel Miranda. Although Republicans said Speaker Nancy Pelosi was one of those attending, a spokesman said she, like the president, stayed in Washington for the weekend.A person familiar with the presidents thinking who spoke on the condition of anonymity described Mr. Trump as both a workaholic and a homebody. The president, that person said, has been sensitive to the criticism that he is vacationing when he visits his assorted properties on the weekends, when in fact that has been his preferred mode of weekending for decades.Stuck in Washington over the weekend, Mr. Trump called into the Fox News personality Jeanine Pirros TV show to remind Americans that he was still in work mode.In a lengthy phone call with Ms. Pirro on Saturday evening, the president angrily defended his demand for $5 billion in border wall funding and attacked news reports that the F.B.I. has conducted an investigation into whether he has worked on behalf of Russia.And the president stated once again that he relished the idea of stewing at home alone.I like the symbol of me being here and them being at some play in a nice location having a good time, Mr. Trump said, joining in the bashing of the Puerto Rico trip.The last time Mr. Trump visited Puerto Rico, he was panned for throwing paper towels into a crowd.I havent actually left the White House in months, Mr. Trump said to Ms. Pirro before acknowledging that he had in fact left. Ive been here virtually every night, I guess every night other than one day I flew to Iraq and then to Germany to see our troops.Mr. Trump has long enjoyed puttering around his homes, said Timothy OBrien, the author of the 2005 book TrumpNation: The Art of Being the Donald. The president does not enjoy extensive travel, or sleeping or eating under a roof that is not his own, and he has long imported friends and associates to visit him for dinner.Before he was president, Mr. OBrien wrote in an email, he favored the familiar because it allowed an antisocial teetotaler to mingle selectively with other people  on his own terms and under his control  before retreating back inside to do what he enjoys spending most of his time doing: sitting in front of a TV with a cheeseburger watching sports.Mr. Leamer, the author, said that Mr. Trump is as isolated as any public figure could conceivably be, and added that Mr. Trumps gregarious exterior masked the habits of a loner.""He has walled himself off from the rest of the world, Mr. Leamer said. He loves to go out and receive the accolades of his adoring supporters, but as soon as the applause dies out, hes back into his own private world.At the conference in New Orleans on Monday, Mr. Trump received a standing ovation  the same reception he gets whenever supporters spot him at Mar-a-Lago. He praised the New Orleans Saints and bragged that an ally had placed about 100 phone calls to make sure that he would actually turn up.Then he returned to Washington for another at-home event  welcoming members of the Clemson University football team to the White House to celebrate their national championship last year.The president greeted reporters in the White House dining room, where he proudly displayed a table piled high with burgers from McDonalds, Wendys, and Burger King. Another table in back was covered with Dominos pizza and fries.Ms. Sanders had an explanation for the menu, putting it in political terms. Because the Democrats refuse to negotiate on border security, much of the residence staff at the White House is furloughed  so the president is personally paying for the event to be catered with some of everyones favorite fast foods.Mr. Trump himself called it great American food. But maybe it was really something else  comfort food for a president who feels stuck at home.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported bySkeptical reporting has still been too favorable.By Paul KrugmanOpinion ColumnistThe 2017 tax cut has received pretty bad press, and rightly so. Its proponents made big promises about soaring investment and wages, and also assured everyone that it would pay for itself; none of that has happened.Yet coverage actually hasnt been negative enough. The story you mostly read runs something like this: The tax cut has caused corporations to bring some money home, but theyve used it for stock buybacks rather than to raise wages, and the boost to growth has been modest. That doesnt sound great, but its still better than the reality: No money has, in fact, been brought home, and the tax cut has probably reduced national income. Indeed, at least 90 percent of Americans will end up poorer thanks to that cut.Let me explain each point in turn.First, when people say that U.S. corporations have brought money home theyre referring to dividends overseas subsidiaries have paid to their parent corporations. These did indeed surge briefly in 2018, as the tax law made it advantageous to transfer some assets from the books of those subsidiaries to the home companies; these transactions also showed up as a reduction in the measured stake of the parents in the subsidiaries, i.e., as negative direct investment (Figure 1).But these transactions are simply rearrangements of companies books for tax purposes; they dont necessarily correspond to anything real. Suppose that Multinational Megacorp USA decides to have its subsidiary, Multinational Mega Ireland, transfer some assets to the home company. This will produce the kind of simultaneous and opposite movement in dividends and direct investment you see in Figure 1. But the companys overall balance sheet  which always included the assets of MM Ireland  hasnt changed at all. No real resources have been transferred; MM USA has neither gained nor lost the ability to invest here.If you want to know whether investable funds are really being transferred to the U.S., you need to look at the overall balance on financial account  or, what should be the same (and is more accurately measured), the inverse of the balance on current account. Figure 2 shows that balance as a share of GDP  and as you can see, basically nothing has happened.So the tax cut induced some accounting maneuvers, but did nothing to promote capital flows to America.The tax cut did, however, have one important international effect: Were now paying more money to foreigners.Bear in mind that the one clear, overwhelming result of the tax cut is a big break for corporations: Federal tax receipts on corporate income have plunged (Figure 3).The key point to realize is that in todays globalized corporate system, a lot of any countrys corporate sector, our own very much included, is actually owned by foreigners, either directly because corporations here are foreign subsidiaries, or indirectly because foreigners own American stocks. Indeed, roughly a third of U.S. corporate profits basically flow to foreign nationals  which means that a third of the tax cut flowed abroad, rather than staying at home. This probably outweighs any positive effect on GDP growth. So the tax cut probably made America poorer, not richer.And it certainly made most Americans poorer. While 2/3 of the corporate tax cut may have gone to U.S. residents, 84 percent of stocks are held by the wealthiest 10 percent of the population. Everyone else will see hardly any benefit.Meanwhile, since the tax cut isnt paying for itself, it will eventually have to be paid for some other way  either by raising other taxes, or by cutting spending on programs people value. The cost of these hikes or cuts will be much less concentrated on the top 10 percent than the benefit of the original tax cut. So its a near-certainty that the vast majority of Americans will be worse off thanks to Trumps only major legislative success.As I said, even the mainly negative reporting doesnt convey how bad a deal this whole thing is turning out to be.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Paul Krugman has been an Opinion columnist since 2000 and is also a Distinguished Professor at the City University of New York Graduate Center. He won the 2008 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences for his work on international trade and economic geography.  @PaulKrugman Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Thomas Gibbons-NeffWASHINGTON  Clashes are continuing with Islamic State fighters in eastern Syria, United States military officials said on Friday after the White House claimed that American-backed forces had retaken the extremist groups final sliver of territory.Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, told reporters aboard Air Force One that the Islamic States caliphate in Syria had been 100 percent eliminated. She said Acting Defense Secretary Patrick M. Shanahan had briefed President Trump during the flight.Mr. Trump has declared the Islamic States defeat several times in recent weeks. Each time, Pentagon officials have gingerly tried to clarify that the groups remnants remain hunkered down  first in the town of Hajin and now outside the small village of Baghuz on the Syria-Iraq border.Ms. Sanders told reporters to refer questions to the Pentagon, but the Defense Department declined a request for comment.One military official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said that Islamic State fighters were hiding underground in Baghuz and were still firing at the troops who were trying to clear the village.In recent weeks the extremist group  which once controlled territory about the size of Britain  has also released several videos outlining efforts to hold its final bastion, a patchwork of burning tents, dwindling military supplies and civilians caught in the crossfire.After the White House announcement on Friday, a spokesman for the American-backed Syrian Democratic Forces tweeted that heavy fighting continues around Baghuz. The spokesman, Mustafa Bali, also said that international forces had conducted several airstrikes against the extremists on Thursday night.Another senior United States official said on Friday that the Syrian Democratic Forces planned to issue a statement when they believe the final remnants of the caliphate have been liberated.The presidents drive to announce an end to the four-year campaign against the Islamic State was underscored by his unexpected announcement in December that he would withdraw all troops from Syria. That decision came against the advice of most of his national security officials and prompted the resignation of Defense Secretary Jim Mattis. As a candidate for president, Mr. Trump had promised to end the United States long wars that followed the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.Military officials and lawmakers who opposed the troop withdrawal in Syria insisted that an enduring presence of American forces must remain to ensure the defeat of the Islamic State and counter Iranian and Russian influence. Late last month, the White House announced that roughly 400 American troops would remain in Syria for the foreseeable future.Eric Schmitt contributed reporting from Washington, and Rukmini Callimachi from New York.Advertisement"
"Advertisement

      By PETER EAVIS and 
    
GUILBERT GATES

JAN. 1, 2019

The S&P 500 in 20183,000Daily closes9/20 PEAK2,930.752,7502,5002,250Jan.Feb.Mar.Apr.MayJun.Jul.Aug.Sep.Oct.Nov.Dec.The S&P 500 in 20183,000Daily closes9/20 PEAK2,930.752,7502,5002,250JFMAMJJASONDThe S&P 500 in 20183,000Daily closes9/20 PEAK2,930.752,7502,5002,250Jan.Feb.Mar.Apr.MayJun.Jul.Aug.Sep.Oct.Nov.Dec.After an unexpectedly bad year for the stock market, investors are looking for clues about what 2019 will bring.The hope on Wall Street is that the underlying economy of the United States is sound, that the recent selling will burn itself out and that stocks will resume their record-setting climb. But the risk is that the plunge, the worst annual decline in a decade, could be the start of something more sinister.[Stocks dropped to start 2019. Read our coverage of the years first trading day here.]The forces that pushed the S&P 500 down 6.2 percent in 2018 are still in place. The economy is still doing well, but it does not appear to be as strong as it once was. President Trump is lashing out at the Federal Reserve and the central banks interest-rate increases pose a risk to corporate profits and investors appetite for stocks. Americas trade war with China continues, and the technology giants that dominate the stock market face heightened scrutiny about their business practices.As investors try to gauge the seriousness of these risks, stocks could lurch in different directions at each new event. A meeting of the Fed later this month, an earnings report in February or a trade-negotiation deadline in March could all prove to be catalysts for a big rise or fall.But Wall Streets top stock pickers are still expecting gains this year, even if theyre not quite as boisterous in their predictions as they once were.It could get more frightening before it gets better, said James Paulsen, chief investment strategist at the research firm Leuthold Group. But I think we survive for another run.Last year was a reminder of how unpredictable stock markets can be. In January, with corporate tax cuts in place, the outlook for the market in the United States was great. And stocks did hit a record high in September, with Apple and Amazon becoming the first publicly traded American companies to be valued at more than $1 trillion. But 2018 was also turbulent, with markets falling sharply in February and again at the end of the year.The S&P 500 narrowly avoided one grim milestone: a 20 percent drop from its high, a decline that would signal the start of a bear market. The index ended 2018 down 14.5 percent from its high point, and a bear market could yet be in store should stocks experience another decline similar to what they went through in early December. If that happens, the pessimism that has hovered over the stock market could leach into the rest of the economy, as companies grow wary of taking risks, expanding or adding more workers.Here are the factors that will help determine whether that happens this year.Interest rates in 20183.5%10-year Treasury note yield3.02.52.01.5Federal funds target rate (upper limit)1.00.50Jan.Feb.Mar.Apr.MayJun.Jul.Aug.Sep.Oct.Nov.Dec.Interest rates in 20183.5%10-year treasury note yield3.02.52.01.5Federal funds target rate (upper limit)1.00.50JFMAMJJASONDInterest rates in 20183.5%10-year Treasury note yield3.02.52.01.5Federal funds target rate (upper limit)1.00.50Jan.Feb.Mar.Apr.MayJun.Jul.Aug.Sep.Oct.Nov.Dec.Rising interest rates, and expectations about where those rates are headed, may have weighed on stock prices more than anything else in 2018.With the United Statess economy humming, the Fed increased its target rate four times in 2018, pushing up borrowing costs across the economy. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which is the basis for debt like home mortgages and corporate loans, climbed to its highest level since 2011 before falling back. When borrowing costs rise too much, they can be restrictive. Companies and consumers pull back, and the economy suffers.In the worst case, a recession could occur.Stocks tumbled as investors became increasingly concerned that the Fed, under a new chairman, Jerome H. Powell, would raise interest rates too far and send a chill through the American economy.Only more data on the state of the economy will ease the concerns about growth. If investors see the economy growing steadily, jitters over the Feds intentions and the recession fears that gripped stocks could fade.Were going to see if the market was wildly hysterical about a recession, said Ed Yardeni, chief investment strategist at Yardeni Research.If not, then investors could hang on the Feds every move, and monetary policy meeting, in 2019.Heading into 2018, in the days after Mr. Trumps tax cuts were enacted, investors were mostly buoyant about his presidency and tolerant of his unpredictable declarations on Twitter.That bullishness persisted even after it became clear that Mr. Trump was serious about imposing restrictions on trading partners as a way of gaining concessions from them. But as the trade war continued, unresolved tensions with China started to become a concern, and Mr. Trumps proclamations started to make investors jumpy.When Mr. Trump referred to himself on Twitter as Tariff Man, the message helped spur a drop of more than 3 percent in the S&P 500.....I am a Tariff Man. When people or countries come in to raid the great wealth of our Nation, I want them to pay for the privilege of doing so. It will always be the best way to max out our economic power. We are right now taking in $billions in Tariffs. MAKE AMERICA RICH AGAINIt wasnt just the tweets about China that began to bother investors. Mr. Trump also roiled the markets with criticism of the Fed, which he blamed for the stock market turmoil.This is a change for the market. When the investment bank RBC Capital Markets surveyed big investors in December about what kept them up at night, Mr. Trump topped the list (interest rates and the trade war ranked second and third).The only problem our economy has is the Fed. They dont have a feel for the Market, they dont understand necessary Trade Wars or Strong Dollars or even Democrat Shutdowns over Borders. The Fed is like a powerful golfer who cant score because he has no touch - he cant putt!When it comes to Mr. Trump, investors have a lot to consider. They will have to weigh whether a partial government shutdown will dampen the economy; what a House of Representatives controlled by Democrats or staff turnover at the White House could mean; and what might happen if the United States and China cant reach a trade deal by a March 2 deadline.Commodity prices in 2018PRICE OF OILPRICE OF COPPER$100a barrel$4.00per poundBrent crude futures contractsGeneric futures contracts$3.28803.00$66.8760$2.682.00$54.15401.002000JFMAMJJASONDJFMAMJJASONDCommodity prices in 2018PRICE OF OIL$100a barrel80$66.8760Brent crudefutures contracts$54.1540JFMAMJJASONDPRICE OF COPPER3.50per pound$$3.283.00$2.682.50Genericfutures contracts2.00JFMAMJJASONDCommodity prices in 2018PRICE OF OILPRICE OF COPPER$100a barrel$4.00per poundBrent crude futures contractsGeneric futures contracts$3.28803.00$66.8760$2.682.00$54.15401.002000JFMAMJJASONDJFMAMJJASONDThe trade wars most evident impact so far has been in large overseas economies, which appear to be taking a turn for the worse.China, Japan and the European Union showed signs of slowing down late in 2018, and reliable indicators of global growth like the price of oil and copper are flashing warnings.Growth may accelerate if trade agreements are forged in 2019. But the problems could be deeper. Chinas methods for pulling its economy out of a rut probably are not as effective as they once were. And the battle between Italys populist government and the European Union over the countrys spending plans may heat up again.The European economy could also be hit hard if Britain crashes out of the European Union without an agreement that keeps trade flowing freely. That could be avoided if Parliament approves a withdrawal deal Prime Minister Theresa May has struck with the union. But that is no sure thing. Mrs. May, lacking the necessary support, was forced to delay a vote originally set for last month until mid-January. She has been trying, so far unsuccessfully, to extract changes from European officials in hopes of improving the chances of passage when that vote comes.If Parliament ultimately rejects Mrs. Mays proposal, investors will probably remain nervous. And support may grow among lawmakers for a second referendum on whether Britain should leave the European Union. If that happens, stocks  including those in the United States  may rise on the hope that Britons vote to stay.Technology stocks versus the S&P 500 in 2018PERCENT CHANGE FROM JAN. 1 TO PEAK (SEPT. 20) +100%Netflix+75Amazon+50Microsoft+25AppleGoogleS&P 5000Facebook25PERCENT CHANGE FROM SEPT. 20 TO DEC. 31+25%0S&P 5002550Technology stocks versus the S&P 500 in 2018PERCENT CHANGE FROM JAN. 1 TO PEAK (SEPT. 20) +100%Netflix+75Amazon+50Microsoft+25AppleGoogleS&P 5000Facebook25PERCENT CHANGE FROM SEPT. 20 TO DEC. 31+25%0S&P 5002550Technology stocks versus theS&P 500 in 2018PERCENT CHANGE FROMJAN. 1 TO PEAK (SEPT. 20) +100%Netflix+75Amazon+50Microsoft+25AppleGoogleS&P 5000Facebook25PERCENT CHANGE FROM SEPT. 20 TO DEC. 31+25%0S&P 5002550The markets fate also depends on whether investors fall back in love with large technology companies. Last year, companies like Facebook, Apple, Amazon and Netflix helped push key stock benchmarks like the S&P 500 and Nasdaq composite to records, and then dragged those indexes down when the companies went into free-fall.The tech giants shares plunged in part because they were deemed to be too expensive. Put another way, investors went from being optimistic that the companies future earnings would be terrific, to worried that they wouldnt.Some of the large tech firms also face substantial problems in their own operations that could take time to resolve. Apple, for example, counts on China as both a market where it sells iPhones and a manufacturing hub.Facebook is spending large sums of money to try to protect its network from interference. Any sign that its systems have been abused with the goal of swinging an election could subject it to regulation.Facebook is not alone in facing this concern. Some analysts say that large tech companies are now in a position to similar to what big banks confronted after the financial crisis of 2008.The tech companies are a heck of a lot better run than the financial companies were in 2007, said Savita Subramanian, equity strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, but their incentives may not be aligned with the best interests of employees and shareholders.The United States economy has to grow at a strong enough pace to deliver the corporate earnings that investors are hoping for. But if the economy grows quickly, investors may return to worrying about higher interest rates.If the Fed can tread a delicate middle ground, the trade war winds down and the economies of Europe and China stabilize, a recovery in stock prices could hold.I am not sure the upside for the market is higher than where weve already been, Mr. Paulsen, the strategist, said, but 2019 could still be a good year.An earlier version of this article misstated the deadline for a trade agreement between the United States and China. It is March 2, not March 1.Advertisement"
"The Long RunMs. Harris seemed to try to be all things to all people as a district attorney and state attorney general. Now, as she runs for president, her record faces a chorus of critics, especially on the left.Senator Kamala Harris says her critics are imposing false choices on her record.CreditCreditChristie Hemm Klok for The New York TimesSupported byBy Kate ZernikeSAN FRANCISCO  Kamala Harris was three months into her tenure as San Francisco district attorney in 2004 when a gang member killed a police officer with a hail of bullets from an AK-47. Her announcement within three days of the murder that she would not seek the death penalty set off protests from her fellow Democrats as well as from the police.Senator Dianne Feinstein stood in front of thousands of mourners at the officers funeral at St. Marys Cathedral and urged her to change her mind; Jerry Brown, the once and future governor, was among those standing in ovation. The state attorney general threatened to take over the case, and Senator Barbara Boxer asked the Justice Department to prosecute it.Ms. Harris, the first person of color elected as this citys district attorney, declared her decision a matter of principle: The death penalty, she believed, discriminated against poor and black people and would not deter more killing.But death penalty opponents wondered a decade later where that principle had gone when as Californias attorney general Ms. Harris appealed a judges decision declaring the states death penalty law unconstitutional. She said it was a matter of upholding the law; her critics asked whether she would have similarly defended segregation and statutes against interracial marriage.Now Ms. Harris is running for president as a progressive prosecutor. She says she sees no contradiction in the term, arguing that a tough prosecutor can also be a force for reforming the criminal-justice system. But already, mere weeks into her candidacy, she is facing a chorus of skepticism, especially from the left. The death penalty episode shows the tricky crosscurrents that she has had to weather  and that are likely to intensify as she tries to square that circle.In a dozen years as the top law enforcement official of the city and then the state, Ms. Harris was as much politician as prosecutor, appearing to try to be all things to all constituencies. More practical than ideological, she was defined most by resisting easy definition.She impressed Californians with her commanding presence  offering a preview of the senator the country would see pointedly questioning Republican nominees during confirmation hearings. But she developed a reputation for caution, protecting the status quo and shrinking from decisions on contentious issues.Years before ending mass incarceration became a bipartisan cause, she started programs to steer low-level drug offenders away from prison and into school and jobs. At the same time, she touted her success in increasing conviction rates, and as attorney general remained largely on the sidelines as California scrambled to meet a federal court order to reduce its swollen prison populations. She also repeatedly sided with prosecutors accused of misconduct, challenging judges who ruled against them.And while she summoned righteous anger toward the bank fraud that helped set off the Great Recession, holding out for more money for California homeowners in the National Mortgage Settlement, she said little when the governor diverted some of it to fill holes in his budget.She played it very careful, said Laurie Levenson, a professor at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles who served on an independent panel that investigated one of the cases of prosecutorial misconduct while Ms. Harris was attorney general. She had her sights set on what her future might be, and she realized every day she was navigating a minefield, because she had law enforcement to deal with, she had the public to deal with, the minority community to deal with. I think she was trying to be very careful not to alienate.She has also had to navigate the shifting politics of crime and race  and the expectations they bring with them.Ms. Harris began her career at a time when many African-American law enforcement officials were joining, even amplifying, law-and-order calls for stricter prosecution, to stop the drugs and violence victimizing their communities. When she became attorney general in 2011, crime was falling and the debate was evolving. Now, in the era of Black Lives Matter, many in the black community argue that the biggest law-enforcement problem is law enforcement itself, and her record is being assessed against calls for a wholesale reimagination of the criminal justice system  who should go to prison and for how long; indeed, should any but the most heinous criminals go to prison at all?At the other end of the political spectrum, President Trump has sought to frame the immigration debate around fear of rising crime, teeing it up as a campaign issue for 2020. In the waning days of the partial government shutdown over his demand for a border wall, he tweeted what he called a new Republican theme for the next two years: BUILD A WALL & CRIME WILL FALL!Ms. Harris scorns what she calls false choices, and says her critics are imposing them on her record. Those who have worked for her call her disciplined, a characterization she prefers to cautious. She describes her thinking  about criminal justice, but also about the other issues animating her presidential candidacy, like health care and economic inequality  as scientific. Its a hypothesis; this is how we can do things better, she said in a recent interview. You have to inform it with: Wheres the empirical evidence? Where is the data? Where is the detail?She does not like to be boxed in.The thing that drives Kamala Harris crazy above all other things is to get reduced to a demographic archetype, said Sean Clegg, a longtime strategist for Ms. Harris and other California Democrats. You are XYZ because you are a black woman; you are XYZ because youre from San Francisco. Shes a complex person like all of us. Shes also been the first. Thats a lot more difficult than it looks.Ms. Harris, now 54, confounded expectations just by becoming a prosecutor.She is the daughter of immigrants  her mother from India, her father from Jamaica  who met as civil-rights activists in graduate school at Berkeley and gave Ms. Harris what she calls a strollers-eye view of the demonstrations of the 1960s.Most of her law school peers went into civil-rights work, recalled Jeff Adachi, who was a tutor in Ms. Harriss program at the University of Californias Hastings College of the Law and later faced off against her as San Franciscos elected public defender.You didnt have a lot of minorities who were wanting to be part of law enforcement, he said.She had to explain to family and friends before taking her first job out of law school, as a prosecutor in Oakland in 1990. As she described it in the recent interview, When we want to reform systems, it shouldnt and it cant only be from the outside on bended knee or trying to break down the door.She added, Lets try and do it from the inside and understand that those people are going to stand in a courtroom and ask for guilty verdicts for people who do harm to the community  and thats consistent with all progressive values.She earned a reputation as a sharp trial lawyer, and in 1998 became the managing attorney in charge of the career criminal unit in the San Francisco district attorneys office. But she left within two years, frustrated by what she saw as the dysfunction of that office, which had the states lowest conviction rate and lacked basics like email and enough phones.She worked for the city attorney, and she prepared to run against her former boss, Terence Hallinan, in 2003.Ms. Harris had made political and social connections, dating Willie Brown, the powerful speaker of the California House, and serving on the board of the citys Museum of Modern Art. But her polls showed she was a relative unknown.Mr. Hallinan, a former defense lawyer and a son of a Progressive Party presidential candidate, had infuriated the police department by winning indictments of top brass in a scandal involving the assistant chiefs son. Ms. Harris campaigned between Mr. Hallinan and a more law-and-order candidate, on a platform that ran the gamut: professionalizing the office and improving relations with the police, opposing the death penalty and creating programs to steer first-time nonviolent offenders away from crime.She brought a rare perspective  elected district attorneys are more typically white men; a 2015 study by the Women Donors Network found that just 1 percent are women of color. Communities of color, she argued, wanted tougher treatment for the drug dealers victimizing them; what they didnt want from the police was excessive force.Almost immediately, her decision on the death penalty in the officers killing inflamed tensions with the police. But it was pragmatic as well as principled: She knew that San Francisco jurors rarely if ever returned death sentences. And despite the protests, polling showed that the public supported her.Some contend that the episode spooked her, that she spent the rest of her tenure trying to make amends with the police. Ms. Harris scoffs at the idea, pointing to her diversion program that allowed young low-level offenders to avoid incarceration if they enrolled in school full time and kept a job. You think law enforcement was supportive of that? she said.That  program was relatively small, with only about 300 graduates over eight years. Mr. Adachi and others complained that it took only the offenders most likely to succeed. But its recidivism rate was remarkably low: less than 10 percent, compared with 53 percent statewide.Arguing that students who skip school are the ones who end up in the criminal justice system, Ms. Harris also started an anti-truancy program. She described it as carrot-and-stick: It threatened prosecution for parents whose children were chronically absent, but also helped them with health care problems and other hurdles to getting their children to school.Critics, though, said it was more stick than carrot, and failed to grapple with the depths of the social problems parents were struggling against.Either way, the program reflected Ms. Harriss approach to her job.Fierce, said Lateefah Simon, a onetime teenage shoplifter who became executive director of a center that helps lift young women out of lives of crime. Ms. Harris recruited her to work in the district attorneys office, instructed her to lose the Pumas and track pants, bought her a suit and told her she needed to understand the penal code. Ms. Harris herself kept an immaculate desk, with little more than a notepad and a keyboard at her fingertips.Ms. Simon called Ms. Harris the 1999 version of Olivia Pope, the impeccably tailored, steely-in-a-crisis hero of televisions Scandal.Shes not easy, Ms. Simon said. If you beat up a woman in front of her children, you are going to jail. At the heart, she is a prosecutor. She wants to hold people accountable.Suzy Loftus, who started working for Ms. Harris as a campaign volunteer in 2003 and is now running for district attorney, recalls Ms. Harriss instruction as she swore her in as a prosecutor: When you go into court tomorrow, she told her, you look the judge in the eye and say, Suzy Loftus, for the people. (For the people is now the slogan for Ms. Harriss presidential campaign.)Its professional and its about dignity, Ms. Loftus said. But its also about giving dignity to people who are most impacted by the system.But it was Ms. Harriss success in increasing conviction rates that became a central boast of her campaign for attorney general in 2010.An article in San Francisco Weekly that year challenged the numbers, noting that most of the convictions had come from plea deals, and that the conviction rate for cases that went to trial was lower than Mr. Hallinans, and had dropped over the previous two years. Assistant prosecutors were quoted saying that Ms. Harris had pressured them to take weak cases to trial in an attempt to look tough on crime as she prepared to run beyond the liberal city.Her office defended her by noting that she had won stiffer sentences than her predecessors, by demanding prison time instead of probation for crimes including robbery and home burglary.Ms. Simon, who was awarded a MacArthur genius grant in 2003 for her leadership on juvenile justice and now leads the Akonadi Foundation, a racial justice organization in Oakland, says she fights with her radical friends who think Ms. Harris was not progressive enough on crime. I say, Id love to see you run for D.A. and run a better office.Ms. Harris, she said, had to contend with expectations from all sides.She instinctually but also strategically had to think about the way people saw her, Ms. Simon said. The expectations not just of a black woman elected, but with black folks, they expected so much of her to go and revolutionize the system in four to eight years, which is impossible.Ms. Harris ran unopposed in 2007 for her second term  the only San Francisco district attorney to have done so in nearly two decades. And she became increasingly well known nationally, publishing her first book, Smart on Crime: A Career Prosecutors Plan to Make Us Safer, as she prepared to run for attorney general in 2010.She took office at the ideal moment for a prosecutor who wanted to rethink the criminal justice system.A panel of federal judges had ruled that overcrowding in California prisons amounted to cruel and unusual punishment  prisoners were stacked in triple bunk beds in gymnasiums and dying for lack of medical care  and ordered the state to reduce the population by about 40,000.The debate over prison crowding had been long-running and contentious, with victims rights groups and law enforcement officials opposing the idea of prisoner release. Ms. Harris stayed above the fray, as she would on a range of issues throughout her tenure, seeing herself less as a decision maker than as a lawyer serving a client.She had campaigned to the right of her Republican opponent on the question of easing the states tough three-strikes law. Once in office, she declined to take positions on ultimately successful ballot initiatives intended to reduce prison populations  one expanding opportunities for parole, the other reducing many nonviolent felonies to misdemeanors.She argued that because she was tasked with writing the descriptions of the initiatives that would appear on the ballot any public statements on the proposals might create the impression that she had a finger on the scale. This departed, though, from the practice of previous attorneys general.After the Supreme Court upheld the judges overcrowding order, the state promised to promptly release a significant number of nonviolent prisoners, giving credit for time served. A delay in meeting that promise drew a judicial scolding in 2014. The states response proved embarrassing, and unsuccessful: Reducing the prison population, Ms. Harriss office maintained, would hurt Californias ability to fight wildfires by shrinking the pool of forced labor.She really was a sideline player in all the decarceration efforts, said Robert Weisberg, a law professor and co-director of the criminal law center at Stanford. She didnt stake out a strong position on what to do other than, Lets promote re-entry and anti-recidivism programs.The California attorney generals office is large, about 5,000 lawyers, and Ms. Harris said she was unaware of the brief arguing for cheap prison labor. A previous A.G. said to me, You are going to inherit an office of 5,000 mistakes waiting for you every day, she said in the interview. I have always owned that responsibility.That was also her response to criticism that she had resisted appeals for DNA testing from Kevin Cooper, a death row inmate whose case had been taken up by groups including the American Bar Association and the American Civil Liberties Union. Ms. Harris said she learned of the case in a New York Times column last year  after which she urged testing.Beginning in the summer of 2014, the nation  and with it, Californias attorney general  was thrust into a debate over police brutality, by the deaths of black men in confrontations with the police in Ferguson, Mo.; Baltimore; and other cities.Ms. Harris won praise for releasing statewide data in a way that informed rather than inflamed the brutality debate: It included numbers on the use of police force but also on use of force against officers. She instituted body cameras for police agents who worked in her office, and offered implicit-bias training for police statewide.But she declined to support statewide regulations for the use of body cameras, agreeing with local departments that they should set their own standards. And she did not support a bill that would have required the attorney general to investigate police shootings.Her office was also forced to confront an uproar over prosecutorial misconduct, with judges disciplining local prosecutors for lying and tampering with evidence. It was an issue she had faced as district attorney in a scandal involving drug testing at the San Francisco Police Department crime lab.A technician had been skimming drugs to feed her own habit, and Ms. Harriss chief drug prosecutor had warned that she was sabotaging evidence. Ms. Harris said she only learned of the problem several months later, when it was revealed publicly.A judge then ruled that the district attorneys office had violated constitutional protections requiring prosecutors to turn over any information that might damage witnesses credibility, and criticized the office for failing to tell defense lawyers about crimes or misconduct on at least 60 police officers records.Ms. Harris responded by accusing the judge of a conflict of interest because she was married to a defense attorney who had handled a case involving the lab. (A court rejected her motion.)As attorney general, Ms. Harris defended prosecutors by appealing judges rulings  dropping one appeal, during her Senate campaign, only after a video of judges criticizing her office went viral.In a case in Orange County, a public defender had discovered that the district attorneys office was strategically placing jailhouse informants, offering them leniency if they could coax confessions from fellow inmates. A judge found that the district attorneys office had lied to him about the use of informants and withheld potentially favorable evidence from defense lawyers.When the judge disqualified the entire office from a death penalty case, Ms. Harris appealed, accusing the judge of abusing his discretion. While she opened an inquiry into the case at hand, she rejected repeated calls for a broad investigation of the prosecutors office.In the recent interview, Ms. Harris said her decision reflected her experience when others had tried to disqualify her from the San Francisco death penalty case. It was up to voters, not the attorney general, she said, to remove elected prosecutors. I knew misconduct had occurred, clearly it had, she said. And it was being handled at the local level.Frustrated by her refusal to investigate, Erwin Chemerinsky, then the law school dean at the University of California, Irvine, joined with a former attorney general to ask the Justice Department to examine what they believed was a pattern of civil rights violations in the prosecutors office. Their letter was signed by 25 prominent law professors, prosecutors and defense lawyers.Twice Kamala Harris called on my cell and said she was on top of it and looking into it, he said. To my knowledge, the California A.G. never did anything with regard to the scandal.Professor Chemerinsky emphasized that he admired Ms. Harriss work as a senator. But, he said, her offices decisions on Orange County were outrageous.Their reaction ranged from silence to criticizing the judge who found the misconduct, he said. Never did they attempt to be a force for reform.In September 2011, Ms. Harris announced that she would not sign the National Mortgage Settlement, negotiated by the Obama administration with the banks at the center of the foreclosure crisis. What happened next, Ms. Harris and her supporters say, illustrates her agility in balancing competing interests.The proposed settlement essentially gave the banks amnesty against further prosecution. Ms. Harris wanted to leave open the possibility of investigation and lawsuits, and promised Californians to lock up the bankers responsible for the fraud.As the top prosecutor for the state with the bulk of foreclosures, she had the power to determine the fate of the deal. The lobbying was intense  from housing groups, from homeowners, from the Obama administration. It was a constant tension between speeding the relief quickly in the middle of the crisis or taking the time to go through this investigation, which could take years, while people were losing their homes every day, said Brian Nelson, a deputy who helped Ms. Harris negotiate the deal.She did not kill the settlement. She emerged with a better one: The banks agreed to $18 billion in debt reduction that Ms. Harris said would allow California homeowners to stay in their homes, and the national agreement included $2.5 billion for a fund to provide educational counseling and other services for those in danger of foreclosure.But critics, especially on the left, have long said that the settlement was no grand bargain. It did not require banks to pay much out of pocket; $4.7 billion of the $18 billion in relief came from forgiving second mortgages, many of which the banks would have written off anyway because they were so severely underwater, and $9 billion came from homeowners selling their homes for less than the value of their mortgages, meaning that homeowners did not stay in their homes.Ms. Harris retained the right to investigate and pursue claims against the banks, winning $921 million against five institutions. But no one went to prison; she explained to voters that she was frustrated, too, but the state could go only where the evidence took us.And most of the $410 million California got to help at-risk homeowners never made it to them; a judge found that Governor Brown diverted $331 million to plug budget holes. Ms. Harris recused herself from defending the governor because of her role in the settlement. She rebuffed housing advocates requests to meet with her, offering little more than a brief statement that the money should go to homeowners.Her decision to fight the ruling that had struck down Californias capital punishment law in 2015 created similar disappointment among those who had applauded her refusal to call for the death penalty in San Francisco.This was not a situation where they were compelled to respond, said Hadar Aviram, a law professor at Hastings who started a petition against appealing. They could have done nothing.The public, however, had three years earlier rejected a ballot initiative that would have abolished the death penalty in California.In the interview, Ms. Harris said that as attorney general she had had to represent her client, the governor, who supported the death penalty appeal. Even so, she had cited her discretion in deciding which cases to pursue when she declined requests to defend Proposition 8, a successful ballot initiative defining marriage as between a man and a woman, in federal courts.Once again, she said, her critics were framing a false choice: She could defend the death penalty for a client and still be opposed to it personally.Just as a prosecutor can be tough but also progressive.One human being kills another human being, a woman is raped, a child is molested  are we really saying there should be no consequence and accountability? she said. I believe it is consistent with knowing that there is bias in the system, knowing that there are deep flaws in the system, knowing that there has to be reform of the system.She added: Are we really saying that youre either that, or you believe that there should be serious consequences for people who commit serious crimes? I am both.Advertisement"
"Advertisement

      By DENISE LU

UPDATED FEB. 12, 2019

A tentative deal reached on Monday to prevent another federal shutdown would include 55 miles of fencing along the United States border with Mexico. As of January, no new miles of barriers had been built so far under President Trump, though some construction is expected to begin this month.UNITED STATESNEW MEXICONORTHTEXASCALIF.ARIZONAU.S.-Mexico border1,954 milesMEXICOUNITED STATESNEW MEXICOTEXASNORTHCALIF.ARIZONAU.S.-Mexico border1,954 milesMEXICOUNITED STATESNEWMEXICOTEXASNORTHCALIF.ARIZONAU.S.-Mexico border1,954 milesMEXICOUNITEDSTATESNORTHN.M.TEX.ARIZ.CALIF.U.S.-Mexico border1,954 milesMEXICO1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,000 mi.Trumpsproposed wallNote: Illustrations of wall types are diagrammatic and not to scale.1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,000 mi.Trumpsproposed wallNote: Illustrations of wall types are diagrammatic and not to scale.1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,000 mi.Trumpsproposed wallNote: Illustrations of wall types are diagrammatic and not to scale.1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,000 mi.Trumpsproposed wall1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,000 mi.Trumpsproposed wall0 mi.Built basedon prototypes1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,000 mi.Trumpsproposed wall0 mi.Built basedon prototypes1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,000 mi.Trumpsproposed wall0 mi.Built basedon prototypes1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,000 mi.Trumpsproposed wall0 mi.Built basedon prototypes1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,000 mi.Trumpsproposed wall0 mi.Built basedon prototypes654 mi.Existingbarriers1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,000 mi.Trumpsproposed wall0 mi.Built basedon prototypes654 mi.Existingbarriers1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,000 mi.Trumpsproposed wall0 mi.Built basedon prototypes654 mi.Existingbarriers1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,000 mi.Trumpsproposed wall0 mi.Built basedon prototypes654 mi.Existingbarriers1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,000 mi.Trumpsproposed wall0 mi.Built basedon prototypes654 mi.Existingbarriers0 mi.New barriersas of January1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,000 mi.Trumpsproposed wall0 mi.Built basedon prototypes654 mi.Existingbarriers0 mi.New barriersas of January1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,000 mi.Trumpsproposed wall0 mi.Built basedon prototypes654 mi.Existingbarriers0 mi.New barriersas of January1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,000 mi.Trumpsproposed wall0 mi.Built basedon prototypes654 mi.Existingbarriers0 mi.New barriersas of January1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,000 mi.Trumpsproposed wall0 mi.Built basedon prototypes654 mi.Existingbarriers0 mi.New barriersas of January124 mi.Approved new orreplacement1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,000 mi.Trumpsproposed wall0 mi.Built basedon prototypes654 mi.Existingbarriers0 mi.New barriersas of January124 mi.Approved new orreplacement1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,000 mi.Trumpsproposed wall0 mi.Built basedon prototypes654 mi.Existingbarriers0 mi.New barriersas of January124 mi.Approved new orreplacement1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,000 mi.Trumpsproposed wall0 mi.Built basedon prototypes654 mi.Existingbarriers0 mi.New barriersas of January124 mi.Approved new orreplacement1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,000 mi.Trumpsproposed wall0 mi.Built basedon prototypes654 mi.Existingbarriers0 mi.New barriersas of January124 mi.Approved new orreplacement40 mi.Replacementdone or started1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,000 mi.Trumpsproposed wall0 mi.Built basedon prototypes654 mi.Existingbarriers0 mi.New barriersas of January124 mi.Approved new orreplacement40 mi.Replacementdone or started1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,000 mi.Trumpsproposed wall0 mi.Built basedon prototypes654 mi.Existingbarriers0 mi.New barriersas of January124 mi.Approved new orreplacement40 mi.Replacementdone or started1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,000 mi.Trumpsproposed wall0 mi.Built basedon prototypes654 mi.Existingbarriers0 mi.New barriersas of January124 mi.Approved new orreplacement40 mi.Replacementdone or started1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,000 mi.Trumpsproposed wall0 mi.Built basedon prototypes654 mi.Existingbarriers0 mi.New barriersas of January124 mi.Approved new orreplacement40 mi.Replacementdone or started55 mi.Proposedbarriers1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,000 mi.Trumpsproposed wall0 mi.Built basedon prototypes654 mi.Existingbarriers0 mi.New barriersas of January124 mi.Approved new orreplacement40 mi.Replacementdone or started55 mi.Proposedbarriers1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,000 mi.Trumpsproposed wall0 mi.Built basedon prototypes654 mi.Existingbarriers0 mi.New barriersas of January124 mi.Approved new orreplacement40 mi.Replacementdone or started55 mi.Proposedbarriers1,954 mi.U.S.-Mexicoborder1,000 mi.Trumpsproposed wall0 mi.Built basedon prototypes654 mi.Existingbarriers0 mi.New barriersas of January124 mi.Approved new orreplacement40 mi.Replacementdone or started55 mi.ProposedbarriersHeres a look at what has actually been constructed on the U.S.-Mexico border in the past year.The U.S.-Mexico border is 1,954 miles long...President Trump has said he wants a 1,000-mile wall made of concrete or steel. He commissioned eight prototypes.No border walls based on these prototypes have been built or funded by Congress.Before Mr. Trump, there were 654 miles of a variety of barriers.As of January, no new miles of barriers had been built under Mr. Trump. Some existing barriers have been replaced.Before this year, Congress had approved 124 miles of new and replacement barriers, using designs already in place, according to the Department of Homeland Security.Of the approved barriers, 40 miles of replacement barriers have been built or started. Officials expect to break ground on an additional 61 miles in 2019.Congressional negotiators proposed on Monday to add 55 miles of fencing as part of a broader immigration deal.Construction is slated to begin on 14 miles of new barriers in February, which would be the first extension of the current barriers.Mr. Trump has said several times that the United States has constructed new walls. In January, he said that the administration had built a brand new wall in San Diego. While several replacement barriers are being installed in Southern California, Customs and Border Protection had not announced any extensions of the current barriers there at the time.So far, the most common design for recent construction on the border is steel slats that are 18- to 30-feet tall. This is often taller than the barriers they are replacing, which are also sometimes in disrepair. Mr. Trump has varied on his vision for the wall. In December, he promoted the steel slat-style barrier, while also saying parts of the wall would be all concrete.A barrier in place in the El Paso sector of the U.S. border with Mexico.A replacement barrier made of steel slats being installed in Naco, Ariz.This concrete wall is one prototype commissioned by Mr. Trump.A barrier in place in the El Paso sector of the U.S. border with Mexico.This concrete wall is one prototype commissioned byMr. Trump.A replacement barrier made of steel slats being installed in Naco, Ariz.A barrier in place in the El Paso sector of the U.S. border with Mexico.A replacement barrier made of steel slats being installed in Naco, Ariz.This concrete wall is one prototype commissioned by Mr. Trump.The Congressional bill that funded recent wall construction states that only existing designs, such as the slat-style barrier, can be used. That means no money has been allotted for any construction based on Mr. Trumps prototypes of the new wall.Sources: United States Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security and Government Accountability Office. | Note: Illustrations of wall types are diagrammatic and not to scale.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byWhere is the Republican  or Democrat  willing to break with the base?By Bret StephensOpinion ColumnistIn 1992, recording artist Lisa Williamson, better known as Sister Souljah, opined, If black people kill black people every day, why not have a week and kill white people? She also said, If there are any good white people, I havent met them.Sensing a political opportunity, Bill Clinton went before Jesse Jacksons Rainbow Coalition to rebuke Williamson. If you took the words white and black, and you reversed them, the Arkansas governor said, you might think David Duke was giving that speech.Jackson was furious. But Americans were reassured that Clinton really was a new kind of Democrat, not in thrall to the partys left wing. He was elected president later that year.American politics could use another Sister Souljah moment. Two, in fact.The obvious need is among Republicans. In the last week, Donald Trump has renewed his campaign of insult against John McCain, proving that the lowest place on earth isnt the Mariana Trench  its the presidents soul. Yet with the notable exception of Mitt Romney, no Republican of national stature has done much more than clear his throat by way of objection, as if the president were no worse than a bumptious uncle passing gas at a Thanksgiving table.It wont do. What Trump said wasnt rude. It was grotesque. It didnt just besmirch the memory of the honored dead. It assaulted the feelings of the grieving living. It didnt just transgress bounds of ordinary decency. It blew a hole (another one) in our already shattered expectations of presidential behavior. It showed that Trump isnt merely unsuited to leadership. Hes unfitted for manhood.This would be the moment for a rising Republican leader  Nikki Haley comes to mind  to say, in clear and categorical terms, that is not us. She could give a speech in Sedona, Ariz., noting how John McCains values represented the Republican Party at its best: courage and freedom; faith and forgiveness; individualism and engagement.Such a Sister Souljah moment wont derail Trumps renomination. It may even harm the immediate political viability of whoever does the denouncing. But it will send a signal, essential for the partys long-term health, that a future Republican president will restore honor and dignity to the White House.Democrats, too, desperately need such a moment if they are serious about winning the election next year.John Hickenlooper had his chance earlier this month on Morning Joe to describe himself, based on his business record, as a proud capitalist. He flubbed it. Elizabeth Warren and Cory Booker had a chance to repudiate Representative Ilhan Omars anti-Semitism forcefully and without equivocation, just as Nancy Pelosi did. They flubbed it. Kamala Harris had a chance to break out beyond her deep-blue base by opposing the Green New Deal in the name of fiscal responsibility. She flubbed it. Kirsten Gillibrand could have embraced her centrist record as a Blue Dog Democrat rather than run away from it. Shes flubbed it. Beto ORourke, Julian Castro and Pete Buttigieg could have bucked the charge that Democrats are becoming an anti-Israel party by showing up at next weeks Aipac conference. Theyve flubbed it.Theres still time. Trumps executive order Thursday on campus free speech could provide another opportunity for a Democrat to break with progressive orthodoxy.Step 1: Criticize the order as an example of federal government overreach to which conservatives usually object. Step 2: Acknowledge that there is a serious problem on the left when it comes to speech, and that protecting the speech rights of all Americans is an irreducible and non-negotiable principle of liberalism. Step 3: Pledge that as president you will restore Americas moral leadership when it comes to defending press freedom, ideological diversity and individual conscience.How about it, Joe Biden?The chances of this happening seem slim. And the blowback a candidate would face from the progressive social-media furies would be great.But the point of a Sister Souljah moment isnt to ingratiate a candidate to the party base. Its to demonstrate independence and nerve. And furnish evidence that the candidate is of the center, not the fringe. And that he or she can appeal beyond the Democratic base to Americans who think capitalism is mainly good, anti-Semitism and anti-Zionism are profoundly bad, and the intellectual commissars of the woke left are intolerant bores.Donald Trump plans to win re-election on the strength of a fanatically devoted base, a prosperous economy, a Mueller report that finds no smoking gun and a Democratic Party that increasingly seems to find nothing wrong with the word socialism. Its not a bad theory of the race, especially if there isnt a Democrat willing to stand up and prove him wrong.As for the rest of the Republican Party, they believe they can squeak to re-election with a president who extols scoundrels, defames heroes, lies without compunction, holds to no higher principle than his personal gratification and thinks he can always get away with it, because he always does.Is there no Republican willing to stand up to all this, lest Trump be proven right?The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.  @BretStephensNYT  Facebook Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Edward WongRIYADH, Saudi Arabia  Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, speaking with unusual candor, said Sunday that the United States had tried but failed to end a Saudi Arabia-led blockade of Qatar, a crucial military partner in the Middle East.He also said Saudi leaders needed to ensure that they would take full responsibility for the death last fall of Jamal Khashoggi, an outspoken dissident who lived in Virginia and who was killed on a visit to the Saudi consulate in Istanbul.Mr. Pompeo made his remarks in Doha, Qatar, just before flying to Riyadh, the Saudi capital, where he is scheduled to meet with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, the kingdoms most powerful figure, on Monday.Taken together, the comments underscored the challenges faced by the Trump administration as it tries to maintain its relationship with Saudi Arabia and build a coalition against Iran, while mitigating the fallout from a range of actions undertaken by the kingdom and Prince Mohammed, its de facto day-to-day ruler.The State Department said in a statement on Sunday that American and Qatari officials had discussed the Gulf crisis arising from the blockade of Qatar, where the United States military has an important base.The diplomatic split between Qatar and other Arab nations, which began in 2017, has been a problem for the Trump administration, especially as it seeks to forge a coalition of Arab nations to counter Iran.The Arab nations blockading Qatar say the tiny nation is financing terrorists, interfering in their domestic affairs and growing too close with Iran, all charges that Qatari leaders deny.Officials of Qatar, and the opposing nations, say the blockade could go on for years, and American officials now appear to be veering toward that bleak conclusion.Its on everyones mind and not at all clear that the rift is any closer to being resolved today than it was yesterday, Mr. Pompeo said in a talk with State Department employees at the United States Embassy in Doha, the Qatari capital. And I regret that.Mr. Pompeo said he planned to raise the issue of the blockade with Prince Mohammed in their meeting on Monday, which had originally been scheduled for Sunday night, right after Mr. Pompeos arrival in Riyadh.Instead, Mr. Pompeo was pulled abruptly at the airport into a meeting with Adel bin Ahmed al-Jubeir, a senior official who stepped down last month as foreign minister, and Prince Khaled bin Salman, the crown princes younger brother.A State Department spokesman, Robert Palladino, said late Sunday that among the issues Mr. Pompeo had discussed with the two Saudis were the need to counter Iran and to end the Yemen war, where a Saudi-led coalition has been conducting airstrikes against the Houthis, a rebel force. The airstrikes have killed thousands of civilians, and the war has resulted in the worlds worst humanitarian crisis, with many Yemenis starving.At a news conference earlier in Doha on Sunday, Mr. Pompeo said he would discuss the Khashoggi murder with Prince Mohammed to make sure we have all the facts so that they are held accountable, certainly by the Saudis but by the United States as well where appropriate.Mr. Khashoggi was killed and dismembered by a Saudi hit team while visiting the Saudi consulate in Istanbul on Oct. 2, Turkish officials have said. The C.I.A. determined that Prince Mohammed had ordered the killing.But President Trump has not endorsed that finding, and has said the United States will continue its relationship with Saudi Arabia and with the prince, who is close to Jared Kushner, the presidents son-in-law and main Middle East adviser.Mr. Pompeo has supported the presidents viewpoint but has also spoken on occasion of the need for accountability by the Saudis. Middle East experts working in the State Department have concluded that the Saudis have not yet met the threshold of accountability.A Saudi court has begun trial proceedings for 11 suspects in the Khashoggi killing, and prosecutors are seeking the death penalty for five of them.The Saudi government has also removed a few senior officials from their posts, including Saud al-Qahtani, a close associate of the prince who was the kingdoms social media czar.The prince has played a leading role in Saudi Arabias policy with regard to both the Qatar blockade and the Yemen war.As a result of the intractable situation over Qatar, Anthony Zinni, a retired Marine general and former head of American forces in the Middle East, resigned last week from his post as a Trump administration envoy charged with resolving the blockade.We were going nowhere on the Qatar issue, Mr. Zinni wrote last week in an email to The New York Times. CBS News first reported his resignation.The rift among key Gulf partners has frustrated Pentagon officials. A senior defense official said that each time the Americans brought it up, Saudi and Emirati officials would dig in more.The United States has told other Gulf nations that it will participate in a wide range of military training exercises only if Qatar is included. In all but one exercise, the hostile governments have allowed the Qatari military to participate.At a news conference with Mr. Pompeo in Doha, Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman al-Thani, Qatars foreign minister, called his countrys relationship with the United States a strong partnership based on very strong premises.Qatar shows no signs of giving up on its commitment to the Pentagon, and the American military continues to operate its air base at Al Udeid, which houses about 10,000 military personnel.But Pentagon and intelligence officials say they fear that the split among the Arab nations will push Qatar closer to Iran.Theres no way forward, and were kind of stuck in it for now, said Hussein Ibish, a scholar at the Arab Gulf States Institute in Washington. I think something seriously has got to change to make either or both sides reconsider.There are other pressures on the relationship between the Trump administration and Saudi Arabia. The Republican-led Senate voted last month to end American military assistance to the Saudi-led coalition in the Yemen war. And the flight to Canada of Rahaf Alqunun, an 18-year-old Saudi woman who fled from the kingdom and her family this month, has again put a spotlight on human rights in the conservative nation.But Mr. Ibish said he did not foresee the United States breaking the relationship over any of those issues.Theres one country in the Gulf region that is large, powerful and shares most of our long-term goals about stability and security, and thats Saudi Arabia, he said. So the list of options is very short. Its zero for both countries.Eric Schmitt contributed reporting from Washington.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byThe leader of North Korea is taking bigger strides.By HengHeng Kim Song is an editorial cartoonist.Leader Kim Jong-un of North Korea has met for a fourth time with Chinas president, Xi Jinping. Hes still waiting for a second coveted summit with President Trump. With Beijing seemingly in his corner, and few words from the White House, Mr. Kim has mused about possibly finding a new way forward on denuclearization.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byIt promised to create a robust waiver process for visa applicants from countries affected by the travel ban. The process is a sham. By Betsy Fisher and Samantha PowerMs. Fisher and Ms. Power advocate for the rights of refugees. Two years ago this week, President Trump signed an executive order banning travelers from a number of Muslim-majority countries from entering the United States. The fallout has been dire.A teenage Syrian girl who survived a bombing and is in urgent need of reconstructive surgery was barred from traveling from Germany to the United States to seek medical treatment. A 7-year-old Somali boy, whose father died, was prevented from reuniting with his mother in the United States. One American citizen was forced to move to Syria in order to live with her husband, who was barred from coming to the United States. In fact, hundreds of people from Yemen alone who had already undergone vetting and received visa approval notices from the State Department have since had those approvals rescinded or been barred from traveling to the United States.Our organization, the International Refugee Assistance Project, was among the groups that filed the first challenge to the executive order, and we won a series of injunctions temporarily blocking the ban from being enforced. But in June the Supreme Court upheld a modified version of the ban in a 5-to-4 decision. The majority sided with the Department of Justice, which had claimed that a robust waiver process would allow citizens from the blacklisted countries to enter the United States if they met certain reasonable criteria. The Trump administration had cited this as evidence that the travel ban was rooted in national security concerns and not in the discriminatory intent to ban people on the basis of their religion.This assurance was a key rationale for the courts decision. Chief Justice John Robertss majority opinion argued that a waiver process would provide humanitarian exceptions to the ban and thus supported the governments claim of a legitimate national security interest. However, in their separate dissents, Justice Stephen Breyer raised serious concerns about the waiver process, and Justice Sonia Sotomayor argued that it was a sham.It turns out they were right. The waiver process is opaque, arbitrary and unreasonably harsh, and it has not mitigated the bans effects on thousands of families in dire circumstances. It makes a mockery of the rule of law.The waiver provision in the ban stipulates that those barred by their nationality from entering the United States may be granted waivers if they satisfy a three-part test: Applicants must show that being denied entry would cause undue hardship, that their entry would be in the national interest and that their entry would not pose a threat to the national security or public safety of the United States. But there are no published instructions as to how or where to apply for a waiver. Nor is there a form to fill out. This is in direct violation of the text of the ban, which explicitly directs the secretaries of state and of homeland security to clarify the process.We have no way of knowing how many people have tried to obtain a waiver. What we do know is that the State Department has interpreted the bans provisions in an excessively harsh manner: Between Dec. 8, 2017 and April 30, 2018, according to the only data the administration has made available, roughly 98 percent of people who applied for a visa did not receive a waiver.Thanks to the Freedom of Information Act, we know that the State Department will not even consider an applicants home country conditions when evaluating whether the travel ban imposes undue hardship. What this means in practice is that a Yemeni woman whose husband is in the United States cannot cite atrocities against her family or hometown as evidence of undue hardship. Some consulates even outright refuse to accept the supporting materials that applicants submit to try to prove their eligibility for a waiver.The system is not just ungenerous; it is also arbitrary. Waivers appear to be given reliably only when much publicity is brought to bear. Performers in an acclaimed play enlisted international celebrities like Sting and Benedict Cumberbatch to support their waiver applications, which were eventually approved. Thanks to heavy press coverage, a Yemeni mother longing to say her final goodbyes to her dying toddler was granted a waiver.But the vast majority of eligible applicants cannot muster this level of public attention. More to the point, neither tragic circumstances nor celebrity testimonials should be required to shame the government into following its own laws and criteria.The Muslim ban cannot be cured of its discriminatory intent and devastating effects, and neither the Trump administration nor the Republican-led Senate has shown a willingness to overturn it. Until the bigoted policy is rescinded, Congress must hold the administration accountable to its own directive to establish a transparent, functioning waiver system that would ease the suffering of thousands of families. Betsy Fisher (@betsylfisher) is the policy director of the International Refugee Assistance Project, where Samantha Power (@SamanthaJPower), a former United States permanent representative to the United Nations, is a board member.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Jack Nicas and Keith BradsherSAN FRANCISCO  Apple reduced its revenue expectations for the first time in 16 years on Wednesday because of poor iPhone sales in China, an unexpected development that underscored the slowing of Chinas economy and raised fears of further turmoil in global markets.Apples surprise announcement was the clearest confirmation yet that the Chinese economy is in serious trouble. Beijings effort last spring to clamp down on credit, which sparked a slowdown, and an intensifying trade war with the United States have unnerved consumers and businesspeople alike.Apple is a bellwether, said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moodys Analytics. The iPhone is something that everyone knows and buys, and if people arent buying it, then thats a pretty good sign theyre having a hard time.It is not clear whether this is a problem particular to Apple or whether Chinas slowing economy will affect other American companies, especially the tech giants and Detroit automakers. Either way, investors are bound to grow nervous, especially after the stock markets recent gyrations. Tech stocks, which drove much of the bull market of the past few years, have become a drag on it.With more than 40 stores and hundreds of millions of iPhones sold in the country, few American companies have been as successful as Apple in China  or have as much to lose. China is Apples third-largest market, with nearly $52 billion in sales in the companys most recent fiscal year, mostly from iPhone sales.The company said it expected revenue of about $84 billion in the quarter that ended Saturday, down from a previous estimate of $89 billion to $93 billion. That would be a nearly 5 percent decline from the same quarter a year ago.Apples chief executive, Timothy D. Cook, said the sales decline in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan would exceed the $4.3 billion overall drop in revenue.While we anticipated some challenges in key emerging markets, we did not foresee the magnitude of the economic deceleration, particularly in greater China, Mr. Cook said in a letter to investors. We believe the economic environment in China has been further impacted by rising trade tensions with the United States.Apples revenue warnings sent its shares down more than 7 percent in after-hours trading Wednesday evening, dropping its market value to less than $700 billion. Apple had become the first company to surpass a $1 trillion valuation in August.Its declining share pricehad a ripple effect. Asian markets fell Thursday, and Wall Street opened lower. Apples shares dropped by more than 9 percent to start trading Thursday.[See how investors reacted to Apples news.]Mr. Cook has for years navigated the difficult politics of China, including its tightening controls over the internet, but the Trump administrations tougher stance on the country is posing a challenge.The iPhone was exempt from the first round of tariffs on products built in China. But Mr. Cook said Wednesday that trade tensions and accompanying volatility in global markets had weighed on Chinese consumers and Apples profits.The companys other revenue sources, including iPad, Mac and software sales, together increased nearly 19 percent in the quarter. In the United States and other developed markets like Germany and South Korea, Apple said, it actually had record revenues. The company recently said it would end a longtime custom and no longer break out unit sales of iPhones, a change that rattled investors.While Apple posted roughly flat global sales growth of the iPhone in the third quarter, Chinese rival Huawei jumped 33 percent from the same period a year earlier, according to the market research firm Counterpoint. The figures helped Huawei maintain its status as the second-largest smartphone maker in the world behind Samsung, which posted a 13 percent fall in sales in the same quarter.Huawei has grown despite the China slowdown, as the company has looked to other markets. In the third quarter, its sales rose 13 percent in China but 60 percent outside the country.Finding signs of nervousness about spending in China is not hard, especially among the high-end consumers who dominate the purchase of Apples costly phones and laptops, which are far more expensive than local brands.Many expensive restaurants in Beijing and Shanghai seemed almost empty in early December. Room rates at five-star hotels in both cities, which oscillate continuously in internet pricing these days based on demand, suddenly tumbled in early December, and executive lounges emptied.Car sales fell in September, October and November by record percentages from a year earlier, with each month worse than the last. Car executives say early information shows December was a terrible month for sales as well. Automakers like General Motors, Ford and Volkswagen all rely heavily on the Chinese market and have reported nose-dives in their sales in recent months.Unsold apartments are clogging the countrys real estate market and eroding prices. That is a big threat to Chinas economic growth in the new year because the frenzied construction and outfitting of new homes has accounted for a quarter or more of economic output in recent years, outshining even exports.There are broader signs of economic worry. Government and private surveys that were released in the past week show that purchasing managers in China expect the economy to worsen considerably. New orders are down, and exports are faltering.The worst is yet to come, Mizuho Securities said in a research report on Monday.The Beijing leadership has not tried to fan anti-American sentiment in the trade war with the Trump administration. Indeed, ever since President Xi Jinping of China reached a temporary truce with President Trump on Dec. 1 in Buenos Aires, Chinese state media has gone out of its way to avoid criticizing the United States.But tensions continue to grow. Canadas recent detention of the chief financial officer of Huawei, Meng Wanzhou, on an American warrant has led to fears of retaliation against American companies or executives. Ms. Meng is the daughter of the companys founder.The Trump administration has so far avoided imposing tariffs on smartphones from China. But if that happens, Apple, with its almost complete dependence on factories in mainland China, could find itself at a disadvantage to its global archrival, Samsung, which makes its phones in a wider variety of countries.If people arent buying iPhones, theyre probably not buying everything else, Mr. Zandi said. It symbolizes how deep Chinas economic problems are, and we can connect the dots right back to the trade war.Follow Jack Nicas on Twitter: @jacknicas.Jack Nicas reported from San Francisco, and Keith Bradsher from Washington. Peter Eavis contributed reporting from New York, and Paul Mozur from Shanghai.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael D. ShearWASHINGTON  For months, President Trump has been railing about the urgent need for a wall to protect against what he calls an invasion of illegal immigrants flooding across the southwestern border. But he has also been delivering another message: We need workers, he told a group of activists recently.In other words, he wants more immigrants.I want people to come into our country, in the largest numbers ever, but they have to come in legally, Mr. Trump ad-libbed last month during his State of the Union address.Comments like those from the president have ignited furious criticism from his hard-line, anti-immigrant supporters who accuse him of caving to demands for cheap foreign labor from corporations, establishment Republicans and big donors while abandoning his election promise to protect his working-class supporters from the effects of globalism.This is clearly a betrayal of what immigration hawks hoped the Trump administration would be for, said Mark Krikorian, the executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates cutting legal immigration by more than half. He warned that Mr. Trump was in danger of being not even that different from a conventional Republican.Breitbart News, a conservative website that promotes anti-immigrant messaging, published on Thursday the latest in a series of articles attacking Mr. Trump for catering to big business at the expense of the Americans who put him in the Oval Office. Trump Requests More Foreign Workers as Southern Border Gets Overrun, the site blared on its home page.That Mr. Trump would advance the interests of the global elite ahead of our citizens would be a tragic reversal on any day, Lou Dobbs, the Fox Business Network host, said in a televised rant against the president on Wednesday evening. The White House has simply lost its way.Corporations and influential corporate conservatives such as Charles G. Koch and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce have long urged the president to help them recruit the talent they need by expanding the number of workers who can enter the United States from other countries.That has become more urgent as the economy has improved and as declining unemployment has made it harder for companies to find workers. To assuage their concerns, Mr. Trump has increasingly tailored his immigration talking points to cater to the needs of business executives like those who attended a business round table on Wednesday at the White House.Were going to have a lot of people coming into the country. We want a lot of people coming in. And we need it, Mr. Trump said as he sat next to Tim Cook, the chief executive of Apple, and other executives. We want to have the companies grow, and the only way theyre going to grow is if we give them the workers, and the only way were going to have the workers is to do exactly what were doing.But that message runs counter to the hard-line immigration image that Mr. Trump has carefully nurtured  most recently by shutting the government down for 35 days in a failed attempt to pressure Congress to fund a wall on the Mexican border.Mr. Trump won the White House in no small part by embracing anti-immigrant messaging that tapped into the economic fears of blue-collar workers upset about losing their jobs to foreign workers. Throughout the 2016 presidential campaign, he attacked undocumented immigrants as rapists and murderers and called for a big, beautiful wall along the border with Mexico.Since becoming president, Mr. Trump has aggressively sought to crack down on illegal border crossings, increase deportations, cut the number of refugees allowed into the United States and make it harder for migrants to claim asylum. He has complained about drug dealers, gangs and members of Central American caravans pouring across the border. And last summer, his administration separated thousands of migrant children from their parents in an effort to deter Central American families from trying to seek refuge in the United States.The harsh record  and comments by Mr. Trump that disparaged African nations in vulgar terms and suggested that Haitian immigrants all have AIDS  has earned him the enmity of Democrats and immigration activists, who call him a racist president.It is unclear whether Mr. Trump will follow through on his recent, pro-business messaging. Many of the presidents aides  including Stephen Miller, his top immigration adviser in the White House  agree with the hard-line activists about the need to lower legal immigration.In 2017, Mr. Trump endorsed the Raise Act, a Republican Senate bill that would reduce legal immigration by as much as 50 percent. And the administration is currently considering a proposal to cut immigration by denying work authorizations, known as H-4 permits, to almost 100,000 spouses of immigrants who are brought in by companies to work legally in the United States.But even so, some of the nations most hard-line anti-immigration activists have become increasingly nervous that Mr. Trump might waver on their primary concern  the need to shrink the number of immigrants who enter the United States each year, currently 1.1 million.They argue that tight labor markets make it exactly the wrong time to allow more foreign workers to compete with Americans. Chris Chmielenski, the deputy director of NumbersUSA, which lobbies for lower legal immigration, said companies should be pressured to hire more Americans instead.Anything we do now to bring in more foreign workers could actually reverse some of the economic gains over the last four years, Mr. Chmielenski said. Were absolutely concerned. We feel this isnt how he ran on the issue.Last week, in an effort to communicate that message directly to Mr. Trump, NumbersUSA began airing an ad on Fox News Channel in the hopes that the president would get the message that his supporters do not want to let in more than one million immigrants each year.The majority of voters say the number should be cut to 500,000 or less, the ad said. Americans want less immigration.Mr. Krikorian, of the Center for Immigration Studies, said that companies that no longer have access to foreign workers would have no choice but to turn to Americans who are still struggling to find work: people with disabilities, teenagers, older people and even former convicts.He also said that modest increases in wages for workers would evaporate if companies were allowed to simply tap an unlimited pool of lower-paid workers from other countries.If you want wages to go up, Mr. Krikorian said, you dont import more foreign labor.Business groups dispute that analysis. They argue that immigration expands the amount of business activity in the United States, adding jobs and increasing wages for the vast majority of American workers.Our country has benefited tremendously from welcoming people who have contributed to our economy, our communities, across the board, said James Davis, a spokesman for the Koch network. We want to welcome in everyone who wants to contribute to our society. We want to see more legal immigration.Todd Schulte, the president of FWD.us, a pro-immigration advocacy group that started with backing from Mark Zuckerberg, a founder of Facebook, said that immigrants and immigration increase economic growth, they increase economic productivity and they increase wages for the overwhelming number of native-born Americans.Mr. Schulte, whose group has been highly critical of Mr. Trumps anti-immigrant messaging and policies, welcomed the presidents recognition that legal immigration is a positive thing for the United States economy.But he cautioned that Mr. Trump must be measured by his actions, not his words. He called on the president to halt the effort to deny the H-4 work permits to immigrant spouses.He should stop trying to revoke the H-4 rule, Mr. Schulte said. Increasing legal immigration would help native-born Americans. Unfortunately, the record has been one bent on cutting overall immigration levels.An earlier version of this article misidentified the network on which Lou Dobbs hosts a nightly program. It is Fox Business Network, not Fox News.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Julie Hirschfeld DavisWASHINGTON  America will get its first taste of divided government under President Trump this week when a Democratic House tries to wrest control of the political agenda from Mr. Trump, who appears determined to keep the focus on border security, immigration and his big, beautiful wall.After the midterm elections ushered in the most diverse freshman class in history, House Democrats intend to put a spotlight on the issues that worked well for them during the campaign: diminishing the influence of the wealthy and connected, expanding voting rights, lowering prescription drug costs and passing a bipartisan infrastructure bill.Mr. Trump, on the defensive and presiding over a federal government that remains partially closed, is trying to stomp on that message. On Tuesday, as the government shutdown was in its 11th day, Mr. Trump invited congressional leaders of both parties to a briefing on border security Wednesday afternoon. Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said on Tuesday night that Mr. Trump would attend.It would be the first visit by Democratic leaders to the White House since Dec. 11, when the president told Representative Nancy Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer he would be proud to shut down the government for border security.Mr. Trump appeared to make a gesture of peace ahead of Wednesdays meeting.Border Security and the Wall thing and Shutdown is not where Nancy Pelosi wanted to start her tenure as Speaker! he said Tuesday on Twitter. Lets make a deal?Just what deal Mr. Trump had in mind was not clear. While Ms. Pelosi has repeatedly signaled she would like to find a compromise that would allow the government to reopen, she has also made it clear that a wall cannot be part of any such deal, whether or not that leads to a messy start to her speakership.After she is elected speaker on Thursday, she hopes to introduce a transparency-in-governing measure to portray Democrats as a responsible governing party and draw a contrast between them and Mr. Trumps scandal-ridden administration. The measure would require disclosure of shadowy political donors, end gerrymandering of congressional districts and expand voting rights.But their first order of business will be reopening the government, as Ms. Pelosi said Tuesday on Twitter in response to Mr. Trump.The president has given Democrats a great opportunity to show how we will govern responsibly & quickly pass our plan to end the irresponsible #TrumpShutdown, she said, just the first sign of things to come.Democrats also intend to use their first months in the majority to push for a bipartisan infrastructure bill and legislation to lower prescription drug costs, issues that they believe will have bipartisan appeal.The Democrats plan to pass two bills on Thursday. The first includes six bipartisan spending measures that would fully fund agencies like the Interior Department and the Internal Revenue Service through the end of the fiscal year in September. The second would fund the Department of Homeland Security through Feb. 8, with $1.3 billion for fencing but no money for a wall on the Mexican border.With the plan facing a shaky future in the Senate and an intransigent president, some rank-and-file lawmakers in both parties are suggesting that a deal to revamp the nations immigration laws, pairing border security and protections for some undocumented immigrants, may be the way out of the stalemate.How about comprehensive immigration reform? Representative Debbie Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, said on CNN on Tuesday, when asked how Democrats intend to compromise with Mr. Trump.One of Mr. Trumps closest allies, Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, has revived his long-stalled immigration proposal to marry $5 billion for the wall with immigration law changes that might appeal to Democrats, including three-year renewable work permits for young undocumented immigrants brought to the country as children, known as Dreamers.Mr. Trump has raised the prospects of broader talks on Twitter. We will be forced to close the Southern Border entirely if the Obstructionist Democrats do not give us the money to finish the Wall & also change the ridiculous immigration laws that our Country is saddled with, he said last week. Hard to believe there was a Congress & President who would approve!Mr. Trump has also claimed, somewhat misleadingly, that Democrats had already voted for a wall.Im in the Oval Office, he tweeted on Monday. Democrats, come back from vacation now and give us the votes necessary for Border Security, including the Wall. You voted yes in 2006 and 2013.He was referring to the Secure Fence Act of 2006, which authorized building a fence along 700 miles of the southern border, and to a 2013 comprehensive immigration bill. That bill passed the Senate with 68 votes but did not make it out of the House. It combined the Republican priority of enhanced border security with the Democratic goal of offering legalization and a pathway to citizenship for the nations 11 million undocumented immigrants.Democratic leaders are wary of any immigration negotiations with Mr. Trump, whom they view as an unreliable partner. Representative Hakeem Jeffries of New York, the new chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, said in an interview on Tuesday that Democrats would not again broach immigration before the government is reopened.We do have a broken immigration system that needs to be fixed in a sustainable and bipartisan way, Mr. Jeffries said. However, its impossible to have a mature conversation about comprehensive immigration reform in the midst of a reckless Trump shutdown sparked by his desire to build a medieval border wall.Democrats have not forgotten that a year ago, when they talked to Mr. Trump about DACA, he promised to work with them on a bill of love, only to back away, prompting Mr. Schumer to declare that negotiating with Mr. Trump was like negotiating with Jell-O.Senator Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of Maryland, said the challenge lies with the Republican majority in the Senate.If you want to get a bipartisan immigration bill in the coming months, youre going to have to have Republican senators willing to work across the aisle to get things done, Mr. Van Hollen said. I dont think they can give President Trump the pen to write every word of legislation.At the same time, Democratic leaders will face pressures of their own, from a freshman class packed with first- and second-generation immigrants, Latinos and immigrant advocates. House Democratic leaders and their staffs have indicated to immigration advocates that they plan to act on legislation to protect immigrants who face an imminent threat of deportation after the shutdown is over. That proposal would grant permanent residence to DACA recipients and to others who came under Temporary Protected Status, which Mr. Trump has also moved to rescind.What we want in 2019 is early action on a bill that combines a permanent solution for Dreamers and for T.P.S. holders, said Frank Sharry, the executive director of Americas Voice, an immigrant advocacy group.Democrats have already begun strategizing privately around such a bill, which would most likely pass the House with little to no Republican support. But Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, has shown little appetite for politically tricky measures that divide Republicans or put them at odds with Mr. Trump  particularly on immigration.The issue could expose fissures among Democrats as well. Liberals are agitating for measures such as abolishing Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the agency that carries out deportations, or killing funding for immigration detention beds and enforcement agents.But Democratic congressional leaders and many rank-and-file members, including freshmen elected in districts carried in 2016 by Mr. Trump, say they are all for border security and enforcement, as long as it is effective and reasonable.Broader immigration legislation would be nice, if we had a reliable person at the other side of the table to negotiate with, said Representative Gerald E. Connolly, Democrat of Virginia. I wouldnt be so bold as to predict a magic bullet.Emily Cochrane and Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byCritics NotebookBy James PoniewozikYou can tell how deeply Donald J. Trump cares about a thing by the extent to which he makes up numbers about it: How many stories in Trump Tower; how many viewers for The Apprentice; how many people at his inauguration. So it was not exactly stunning when he held a Monday-night rally in El Paso and spun a fanciful overestimate of his attendance that the citys fire department later shot down.What was different was that he also came up with some creative stats for someone elses rally: the former Texas congressman Beto ORourke, an El Paso native and a potential Democratic candidate, who spoke at a counterdemonstration against the presidents immigration policies. The president told his faithful that Mr. ORourke was speaking to 200 people, 300 people  though unofficial estimates of the crowd ran well into the thousands.I will leave it to others to adjudicate whose was bigger. But the night was an example of how nothing threatens this TV president more than a challenge to his ratings.By holding a rally in Mr. ORourkes home base, the president gave him the chance to do what few political opponents have managed since 2015: to split-screen him.On cable news and in the morning-after coverage, there was a competing image to Mr. Trumps MAGA-hatted arena throng: a Monday Night Lights assembly of protesters crowding a baseball field as Mr. ORourke, gesturing animatedly in shirt sleeves, insisted that the city was safe not because of walls but in spite of walls.Potentially as significant as what Mr. ORourke said was that he managed to share billing with the president on TV. He benefited, of course, from Mr. Trumps serving as his location scout and delivering him a made-for-cable-news opportunity. But his audience was not the only one that the ratings-hound-in-chief has been watching warily.After Senator Kamala Harris of California began her campaign in front of more than 20,000 people in Oakland, the president mispronounced her name in an interview with The Times but took note of her better crowd, better enthusiasm. He was less kind to Senator Elizabeth Warren, mocking a viral Instagram video of her cracking open a beer on New Years Eve, and Senator Amy Klobuchar, whom he critiqued for kicking off her campaign outdoors in a Minnesota snowstorm.But as someone once wrote in The Art of the Deal, from a bottom-line perspective, bad publicity is sometimes better than no publicity at all. Mr. Trump won the presidency in part by cornering the market on publicity  much of it bad, but all of it feverish.The battle to succeed him in the White House will be, in part, a battle to succeed him as the protagonist of our national serial drama, which makes the primary, in part, an audition. Its easy to imagine Mr. ORourkes border standoff as one in a series of proxy battles to prove the candidates media-worthiness.I know: It is demeaning and depressing to describe the American electoral process as a TV show. Nonetheless it is also true, as proven by the White Houses current occupant. (And not only by him: It was not for nothing that Republicans anxiously tried to dismiss Barack Obama in 2008 as a celebrity.)And while getting media attention is not the same as making policy, its not irrelevant to that, either. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez has gotten almost-unheard-of political influence for a first-term representative in part by being a media star  which is to say, by personifying a narrative, in TV and social media, of a counter-movement further left, more inclusive and younger than Mr. Trumps own.Taking on the president in the media doesnt have to mean imitating him, down to the insults and the Twitter fights. But it does mean being able to seize attention with an alternative story, and sense what the camera is hungry for. To take down the No. 1 show in the country, you need to be an effective counterprogrammer.That happens all the time in showbiz. In the presidents protesting-too-much theater criticism of his potential opponents, theres a hint of the aging celebs fear of being overtaken by the next hot sensation  someone dynamic, younger or newer, who will catch and hold the cameras roving eye. (This may have been the subtext when he told a West Virginia rally that he worries only about some total unknown.)Mr. Trump has become yesterdays news before. In the 1980s, he was the braggadocious public face of Reagan-era capitalism, dominating tabloid pages and talk shows; by the 1990s, he was a self-parody, doing ironic cameos on sitcoms like The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air.For one season, The Apprentice was a pop-culture sensation that made him the toast of a grateful NBC; within years, the ratings dwindling and the public bored of the shows overexposure, he was hosting a farcical, less-popular celebrity version.As president, of course, he has the advantage of real power, and a press still fixated on What will he tweet next? coverage.But as his nervous eye on his opponents crowds indicates, he knows that fame is powerful and fickle. And if it turns, you can fudge and spin your numbers, but the ratings dont lie.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byletterHas Donald Trump ever had a first thought about the Berlin Wall? a former Times correspondent in Germany asks.To the Editor:Has President Trump ever heard of the Berlin Wall? It is hard to think so from his explanation of his decision to stop the government shutdown to give congressional leaders a chance to provide funding for a wall between the United States and Mexico (Shutdown Ends With No Funding for Wall, front page, Jan. 26).Part of his speech was a paean to walls:They do work. No matter where you go, they work. Israel built a wall, 99.9 percent successful. Wont be any different for us. They keep criminals out. They save good people from attempting a very dangerous journey from other countries, thousands of miles, because they think they have a glimmer of hope of coming through. With a wall, they dont have that hope.No, and people living in East Germany didnt have that hope for almost three decades after the Berlin Wall went up in 1961. Every American president from John F. Kennedy to George H.W. Bush denounced the cruelty of that wall. Its demise in 1989 led to the reunification of Germany, a great victory for democracy and a fatal defeat for the Communist dictatorships in East Berlin and Moscow that had erected it. Now, Vladimir Putin has second thoughts about all that; has Donald Trump ever had a first thought about the Berlin Wall?Craig R. WhitneyBrooklynThe writer is a former editor and correspondent, including in Germany, for The New York Times.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byWill there be a dangerous new era of unchecked nuclear weapons development?By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.Before the fear of being blown up on a plane, or a train, or a sidewalk gave millions of people sleepless nights, before the threat of global climate disaster stirred dread, nuclear annihilation was the stuff of nightmares. By the mid-1980s, the United States and the Soviet Union had amassed 63,000 nuclear weapons, with the promise of mutually assured destruction if even one were ever used, even accidentally. Then, after years of global protests and skyrocketing budgets, American and Soviet leaders  stepped back from the brink and began a process of arms control diplomacy, accelerated by the fall of the Soviet Union, that shrank those arsenals by nearly 90 percent. For decades, that process and that diplomacy continued  until now.President Trump and his Russian counterpart, Vladimir Putin, who control 90 percent of the worlds nuclear weapons, are preparing to abandon the 1987 treaty that eliminated ground-launched ballistic and cruise missiles with ranges of 310 miles to 3,100 miles. They have yet to begin serious talks on extending a 2010 treaty that reduced the nuclear warheads deployed on intercontinental ballistic missiles and other strategic systems, and the Americans, in particular, dont appear to have any interest in doing so. Washington and Moscow are also modernizing old weapons systems and building new ones, at a cost of  $494 billion over the next decade in the United States alone. At the same time, Pakistan, India and North Korea are expanding their arsenals as the international consensus for nonproliferation erodes. Experts with The Bulletin of Atomic Scientists, who evaluate the nuclear threat, last month judged the current state of affairs to be as worrisome as the most dangerous times of the Cold War. The Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty of 1987, which eliminated 2,692 ground-based missiles, is part of a web of arms control agreements that have managed the threat. Mr. Trump is right to blame the Russians for beginning to unravel the I.N.F. treaty during the Obama administration by testing and then deploying a cruise missile banned by the treaty. But he was wrong to assert in his State of the Union address that he had no choice other than to withdraw from the treaty, a move that takes effect in August.His threat to outspend and out-innovate all others by far in the production of weapons of mass destruction was chilling, particularly given Mr. Putins vow of a symmetrical response. If our American partners suspend their participation in the I.N.F. treaty, so will we, he said on Feb. 2. And if they start working on new weapons, so will we.Its unlikely the treaty will be revived, given the deterioration of Russian-American relations, despite Mr. Trumps promises of warmer ties and a coziness that has drawn the scrutiny of the special counsel Robert Mueller.The pacts imminent collapse has intensified concerns that the United States and Russia will let the 2010 New Start agreement, with its caps on deployed nuclear warheads, intercontinental ballistic missiles and heavy bombers, as well as requirements for verification and data exchanges, expire in 2021. (Start stands for Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty.) Absent an extension or a new treaty, the nuclear arsenals will become unregulated  meaning there will be no legally binding, verifiable limits on the American or Russian nuclear arsenals  for the first time since 1972.Adding to the uncertainty, Mr. Putin has warned that Russia is developing new invincible hypersonic missiles that will travel at more than five times the speed of sound.The United States, meanwhile, is developing a new conventionally armed intermediate-range missile that could one day be deployed in Europe. By the end of the year, Washington may be ready to field a low-yield nuclear weapon that could make it easier to use nuclear weapons without courting Armageddon. Last month, Mr. Trump threatened to unsettle the nuclear landscape even further by promising to reinvent American missile defenses, a quixotic vision reminiscent of President Ronald Reagans unfulfilled Star Wars program.  Mr. Reagan appreciated the dangers of nuclear war and the value of negotiated agreements that could reduce weapons. The New Start numbers can go even lower. It has been over seven years since the two powers held serious nuclear arms reductions talks. The United States, its allies, even the Russians will be less safe if that process atrophies.With Democrats now in control of the House, the new chairman of its Armed Services Committee, Adam Smith of Washington, plans to hold what could be the most fundamental public examination of American nuclear doctrine in decades.If Mr. Trump continues to push for an expanded nuclear arsenal and abandons the strategic arms accord, Congress should freeze the nuclear modernization budget and block funding for new weapons.The commitment to spend billions of dollars to upgrade the aging nuclear arsenal was part of the Faustian bargain President Barack Obama made with Senate Republicans to win support for the New Start pact. He did so with the hope that it would help lead, eventually, to a world with no nuclear weapons. Outspending Russia on a nuclear arms race, as Mr. Trump has bragged he would do, or abandoning an arms control regime that has helped forestall nuclear war for decades, is a foolish game of chicken, with no possible winners. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. Wed like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And heres our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Julie Hirschfeld Davis and Sheryl Gay StolbergWASHINGTON  The Trump administration said Tuesday that it would summon tens of thousands of federal employees back to work without pay to get the government running amid a partial shutdown well into its third week, as the White House and increasingly agitated lawmakers on Capitol Hill cast about for a way to end the stalemate.On a day of inertia and theatrics in Washington, the partisan disconnect fueling the deadlock was on full  sometimes absurd  display. House Democrats spurned an invitation by President Trump to a bipartisan lunch at the White House, drawing howls of outrage from Mr. Trumps team, while Democrats dismissed the steak-and-potatoes meal as little more than a photo opportunity. A group of House Democratic freshmen marched across the Capitol  with reporters in tow  to publicly confront Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, with demands to end the impasse. But Mr. McConnell was not in his office, so they left a note.In between the choreographed scenes of non-negotiation, Republicans and Democrats toiled privately to find a solution that Mr. Trump would accept. The talks were expected to continue Wednesday, after the president issued yet another invitation to a group of centrists from both parties, the Problem Solvers Caucus, who were scheduled to attend a meeting with him in the Situation Room.Senior administration officials, in the latest indication that they do not expect the partial shutdown to end anytime soon, made contingency plans to call back workers without pay. The Federal Aviation Administration said it was bringing thousands of furloughed inspectors and other employees back to work, while the Internal Revenue Service released a plan to have 46,000 of its 80,000 employees on the job for tax-filing season, up from about 10,000.The Interior Department is bringing back at least 40 federal employees tasked to work on a plan to sell oil and gas drilling leases off the entire United States coastline.In Washington, the deadlock showed no sign of subsiding. In the House, some freshman Democrats who won in districts carried by Mr. Trump in 2016 showed some sign of concern. They met on Tuesday to talk about whether  and how hard  to push their leaders to negotiate with the White House.Maybe its an outlier view compared to some others in the Democratic Party, but I believe we have a responsibility to get in a room and negotiate, said Representative Elissa Slotkin, Democrat of Michigan, who hosted the session in her office.Thats a total of $200 million in unpaid wages each workday.But the House Democrats absence from Mr. Trumps lunch on Tuesday was the latest indication that their party is standing firm for now against his demand that any proposal to reopen the government must include $5.7 billion for a wall on the southwestern border. White House officials, who had issued the invitation in the hopes of showing fissures among Democrats, used the regrets-only response to deflect responsibility for the prolonged shutdown, arguing that Mr. Trump was the one trying to end the impasse. A slew of recent polls have found that the public largely blames Mr. Trump and Republicans for the continuing dysfunction.Unfortunately, no Democrats will attend, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said in a statement about the lunch. She added, Its time for the Democrats to come to the table and make a deal.Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, have refused to negotiate over border security until the government reopens, but Mr. Trump has ruled out separating the two issues. While the Democratic-led House has passed several bills to end the shutdown, Mr. McConnell has said he will not advance the legislation knowing that the president will not sign it.In a situation like this, where the president, in my view, is in the right place, trying to get the right outcome, as all of us have expressed, with regard to border security, of course not, Mr. McConnell said.Ms. Slotkin would not say whether she agreed with Ms. Pelosis stance that no negotiation was possible until the government reopened, citing a confidentiality pledge she said members of the group had taken about their discussion. But she said she and her colleagues were walking around with copies of legislation co-written by Representative Will Hurd, Republican of Texas, and Representative Pete Aguilar, Democrat of California, that drew bipartisan support last year. The measure paired border security improvements with legal status for some undocumented immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children, sometimes called Dreamers.Theres a lot of people who believe its important to work across the aisle, that we need a practical way forward, and they believe in figuring out practical solutions, Ms. Slotkin said. We know were not in charge, but we want to get caught trying to help.She said she had called Ms. Pelosi on Monday to relay complaints by her constituents over the weekend about the shutdown, and has also been talking quietly with Republicans  whom she would not name  about how to find a way out of the stalemate.Yet Democratic leaders expressed confidence that their members would not break from their leaders strategy, notwithstanding Mr. Trumps attempts to entice them.Is anybody surprised that the president is trying to get votes wherever he can get votes? Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the majority leader, told reporters on Tuesday. We are totally united  totally.In a closed-door meeting of House Democratic leaders on Monday, Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Hoyer said they had no problem with the idea of rank-and-file Democrats meeting with Mr. Trump. Ms. Pelosi said such a session would give lawmakers a sense of what weve been dealing with in a series of tense meetings with the president in the Situation Room since the shutdown began. Theyll want to make a citizens arrest, she added at one point, according to an official in the room who spoke on condition of anonymity because the conversation was private.In the Senate, bipartisan efforts to forge a consensus appeared to have stalled as both sides agreed little progress was possible while the government remained shuttered.A group of Republican and Democratic senators met privately on Monday in the office of Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, to try to find a way out of the gridlock, but the talks yielded no breakthrough.There was nothing there with structure to it except what do you think, how can we get people back? Mr. Manchin said. I think we all understand that you have to have immigration reform with security. That has to be done simultaneously, and I dont think that can be done while theres a shutdown.The group included Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, who tried last week to forge a compromise that would pair border security funding with legal status for certain groups of immigrants facing deportation. Democrats in the room said no progress could be made on such a deal until the government was reopened, two officials familiar with the talks said, and Republicans agreed.What I would hope is that the president would reconsider and allow the government to reopen for a brief period while senators worked on a compromise, said Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, who attended the session.But the president has repeatedly ruled out doing so, and privately told Democrats this month that such a move would make him look foolish.As the gridlock continued, the Trump administration was searching for ways to lessen the pain of the partial shutdown for those affected. Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of Homeland Security, said she was working on legislation to ensure that the Coast Guard, the only branch of the military going without pay during the lapse in funding, would be compensated.The acting director of the Office of Personnel Management has been working with payroll providers to ensure that some federal workers going without compensation would receive back pay within a few days of when the government reopens, according to a senior administration official who spoke on condition of anonymity without authorization to discuss the plan.Emily Cochrane, Thomas Kaplan and Annie Karni contributed reporting.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Alan YuhasAmerican border officers sent tear gas into Mexico early Tuesday to drive away about 150 migrants trying to cross the border into the United States, the authorities said.In a statement, the Customs and Border Protection agency said that the migrants tried to climb over and crawl under the border fence near San Diego and Tijuana, Mexico  the same area where American officers fired tear gas across the border late last year and where Mexico is struggling to handle thousands of migrants who have fled violence and poverty in Central America.Early Tuesday, as migrants gathered at the border fence there, several teenagers with heavy jackets, blankets and rubber mats tried to cross or cover concertina wire at the barrier. Others began throwing rocks over the fence at the American officers, according to the statement.Law enforcement used tear gas against migrants in at least two of the locations.The American officers also saw members of the group try to lift toddler-sized children up and over the concertina wire, dangerously so, it said.At this point, the agency said, its officers used smoke, pepper spray and tear gas upwind of the rock throwers and south of the border fence and not toward migrants already in the United States or trying to cross at the fence line.The officers used tear gas only after there were rocks and there were kids involved, said a spokesman for the agency, Andrew Meehan. Then it became an issue of safety for the officers and frankly safety of the migrants.At least three volleys of tear gas were sent across the border, according to The Associated Press, which said the gas affected women and children.In its account, Customs and Border Protection said that no agents witnessed any of the migrants at the fence line, including children, experiencing effects of the chemical agents, which were targeted at the rock throwers.After the tear gas was deployed, most of the migrants fled back under the fence and away from the border, Mr. Meehan said.Twenty-five migrants were detained, including two teenagers, the agency said.The Trump administrations Department of Homeland Security, which oversees Customs and Border Protection, has come under intense scrutiny for how it has treated migrants at the border and in the United States.Rights experts have questioned whether the firing of tear gas across the border is justifiable or legal; the number of detained migrant children has soared to the highest ever recorded; and at least two children have died in United States custody.Mr. Meehan could not immediately provide data about how often border officers use tear gas or pepper spray, citing the government shutdowns effect on resources, and said the agency would review the incident as it does all uses of force.The use of those types of nonlethals is fairly common in law enforcement organizations, he said, but the number of uses of force for C.B.P. has been historically down year over year, in large part because of the way we review and improve our policies.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Katie BennerWASHINGTON  William P. Barr, President Trumps nominee for attorney general, promised on Monday that he would allow the special counsel to continue his investigation, seeking to allay Democrats fears that he might shut down the inquiry.It is in the best interest of everyone  the president, Congress, and, most importantly, the American people  that this matter be resolved by allowing the special counsel to complete his work, Mr. Barr said in written testimony that he plans to deliver on Tuesday at the start of his two-day confirmation hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee.The country needs a credible resolution of these issues, he added. If confirmed, I will not permit partisan politics, personal interests, or any other improper consideration to interfere with this or any other investigation.But Mr. Barrs written statement also included a subtle caveat, limiting his assurances about the investigation to issues under his control: I can assure you that, where judgments are to be made by me, I will make those judgments based solely on the law and will let no personal, political, or other improper interests influence my decision, he wrote.That qualification could be important because Mr. Barr has long advanced a philosophy of strong executive powers under which almost any executive branch decision is ultimately the presidents to make and the president is the nations top law-enforcement official, not the attorney general.After Mr. Barr was nominated last month, an unsolicited memo emerged that he had sent to Justice Department officials and the presidents lawyers last year criticizing a focus of the inquiry: whether the president obstructed justice by firing James B. Comey as F.B.I. director in a possible effort to impede the inquiry itself.Obviously, the president and any other official can commit obstruction in this classic sense of sabotaging a proceedings truth-finding function, Mr. Barr wrote, noting that the president is not exempt from the law.The memo prompted concerns among congressional Democrats that Mr. Barr might stop the investigation by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, if Mr. Trump ordered him to do so. The Senate Democratic leader, Chuck Schumer, and Senator Mark Warner of Virginia, the leading Democrat on the Intelligence Committee, have called on Mr. Trump in recent days to rescind Mr. Barrs nomination, saying that his memo disqualifies him to lead the department.In his planned remarks, Mr. Barr said that his memo addressed only the single obstruction-of-justice issue and that he did not argue that a president can never obstruct justice.The memo did not address  or in any way question  the special counsels core investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election, Mr. Barr planned to say. I wrote it myself, on my own initiative, without assistance, and based solely on public information.In his prepared testimony, Mr. Barr also said he would follow the rules governing Mr. Muellers appointment and work to allow him to finish the investigation into Russias 2016 election interference and whether any Trump associates conspired with it.I will follow the special counsel regulations scrupulously and in good faith, and on my watch, Bob will be allowed to complete his work, Mr. Barr planned to say, according to the prepared remarks.Nonetheless, senators still plan to press Mr. Barr about the memo. Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the leading Democrat on the Judiciary committee, said in a letter to Mr. Barr that she plans to ask him why he wrote the memo, who he conferred with in writing it, and exactly who he shared it with.Mr. Barr also said that he would provide as much information to the public as the law allowed about the results of the inquiry.Noting that they worked together at the Justice Department under President George Bush, Mr. Barr planned to say that he has known and respected Mr. Mueller as a colleague and friend for 30 years and that he had confidence that Mr. Mueller would handle the special counsel inquiry properly.Mr. Barr said in his prepared testimony that he reluctantly accepted the nomination out of a sense of civic duty, and that Mr. Trump has sought no assurances, promises, or commitments from me of any kind, either express or implied.In a letter of support for Mr. Barrs nomination, former Justice Department officials including former Attorney General Michael B. Mukasey and James M. Cole, an Obama administration deputy attorney general, wrote that Mr. Barr, who was attorney general under Mr. Bush, served without regard to favor or politics.Mr. Barr will lay out his other priorities at the hearing including clamping down on illegal immigration and ensuring the integrity of elections, according to his prepared remarks. The attorney general must ensure that the administration of justice  the enforcement of the law  is above and away from politics, Mr. Barr planned to say.Charlie Savage contributed reporting.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byAmerican governance shuts down.By Michelle GoldbergOpinion ColumnistAn Ernest Hemingway character once said that he went bankrupt two ways: Gradually and then suddenly. That may also be how Donald Trumps administration finally melts down.We are now two years into the Trump presidency. Think back to how unnerving it was, a little more than 100 weeks ago, when Sean Spicer gave his fuming Baghdad Bob press conference insisting, falsely, that the crowd at Trumps swearing-in was the largest audience to ever witness an inauguration, period! Americans were still capable of being surprised, in those innocent days, at being asked to put the lies of their new president above the clear evidence of their senses.Imagine if youd known then how far wed fall. The government has been partly shut down for 24 days and counting. Around 800,000 federal employees are missing their paychecks. Thousands of low-income people  largely seniors and the disabled  may soon face eviction due to lack of funds at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Food and airplanes are both going without routine inspections.[Listen to The Argument podcast every Thursday morning, with Ross Douthat, Michelle Goldberg and David Leonhardt.]Theres no permanent attorney general or secretary of defense. (The acting attorney general, Matthew Whitaker, is alleged to have helped a company currently under federal investigation for fraud intimidate its critics.) The national security adviser is John Bolton, and he seems to be trying to provoke a war with Iran. An Associated Press story contains this deadpan line: White House aides expressed regret that the president did not more clearly and forcefully deny being a Russian agent when asked by the usually friendly Fox News host.To be clear, were very far from a worst-case scenario version of a Trump administration. Last year the president sent nearly 6,000 active-duty American troops to the border based on racist propaganda about a migrant caravan, but there havent been tanks in the streets. The administration winks at foreign governments who kill journalists, but its own threats against the media are mostly empty. I feared, at the beginning of this administration, that Trump would try to exploit American intelligence capabilities against his personal enemies, but instead he gets his intelligence from Fox News. The fact that so many high-level Trump associates have pleaded guilty to crimes is a sign of his corruption, but it also shows he hasnt corrupted our entire system.Trump has turned out to be the Norma Desmond of authoritarians, a senescent has-been whose delusions are propped up by obsequious retainers. From his fantasy world in the White House, he barks dictatorial and often illegal orders, floats conspiracy theories, tweets insults and lies unceasingly. But much of the time hes not fully in charge. He has the instincts of a fascist but lacks both the discipline and the loyal lieutenants hed need to create true autocracy.That doesnt mean, however, that the country isnt coming undone. Trumps bumbling incoherence, coupled with his declining political fortunes since the midterms, makes him seem less frightening than he once did. But, two years in, the jaded weariness many of us have developed might obscure how bad things are. Were living through an unprecedented breakdown in Americas ability to function like a normal country. The shutdown throws our crisis into high relief. For the first two years, Trump destroyed American norms, standards and conventions. Now hes cavalierly destroying American lives.As of this writing, the president has rejected every way out of the government shutdown save full capitulation by House Democrats. Last week he stormed out of a meeting with the House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, and the Senate minority leader, Chuck Schumer. On Monday he rejected a proposal by his Senate ally Lindsey Graham to open the government for three weeks while the two sides negotiate immigration legislation. For the moment he's backed off from the idea of declaring a national emergency, perhaps because many conservatives are afraid of the precedent it will set. Senate Republicans could end the shutdown tomorrow, but the majority leader, Mitch McConnell, refuses to stand up to Trump.The shutdown, then, is set to continue. Air travel, already a mess, will grow more chaotic as more unpaid T.S.A. agents call in sick or quit. Food stamp benefits  which pay for about 10 percent of American groceries  are being paid through February, but no one knows what happens if the shutdown drags into March.F.B.I. agents arent being paid and the agency is being forced to triage investigations. Most immigration courts are closed, and according to The New York Times, court dates that fall during the shutdown could be delayed as long as four years. NBC reported on a federal worker rationing her insulin because shes not being paid. Native Americans have seen their access to health care curtailed. HuffPost described domestic violence shelters cutting services and planning layoffs.How long can this continue? One lesson of the Trump era is that things can feel unsustainable yet drag on interminably. But for two years, most Americans who dont live in Puerto Rico have been protected from the material consequences of White House disorder. Thats changing. Maybe Americans can tolerate uncertainty about whether the president is a traitor. Uncertainty about their next flight, next paycheck or next meal is another story.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram. Michelle Goldberg has been an Opinion columnist since 2017. She is the author of several books about politics, religion and womens rights, and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize for public service in 2018 for reporting on workplace sexual harassment issues.  @michelleinbklyn Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Jim Tankersley and Matt PhillipsMillions of Americans have come to count on tax refunds to fuel their spending in the waning days of winter. But as income tax filing season opens on Monday, a sweeping tax code overhaul and the lingering effects of a government shutdown could squeeze taxpayers refund checks and delay them, too.The monthlong government shutdown coincided with one of the Internal Revenue Services busiest times, and while 46,000 employees were called back to work without pay, many did not show up. Many taxpayers calling with questions faced delays of over an hour. While furloughed federal workers will return to their jobs on Monday, it will take time to get parts of the I.R.S. running smoothly again. And the workers time on the job could be brief, with a temporary measure funding the government expiring in three weeks.Even before the shutdown, big questions loomed about this years tax season. The $1.5 trillion tax overhaul that took effect at the beginning of 2018 lowered individual income tax rates, doubled the standard deduction and eliminated or capped many personal exemptions and tax breaks, such as the state and local tax deduction. All told, the overhaul threw a cloud of confusion over the correct amount to withhold in advance from workers paychecks.The Treasury Department was given discretion to set new withholding levels, which I.R.S. officials finished early last year to help taxpayers ensure they would not have too much  or too little  held back from their paychecks.But the actual impact of those changes will only be known for sure once the returns are processed. The lack of clarity over what has been an annual injection of cash into the consumer economy is adding a layer of uncertainty just when the United States is already contending with slowing global growth, trade tensions and recent jitters in financial markets. Whether the new law will lead to a surge in refunds, a modest bump or even a decline could also have political implications.A Treasury Department analysis provided to the Government Accountability Office, the investigative arm of Congress, projects that about four million more filers will have a balance to pay on their taxes this year, and four million fewer will receive refunds, compared what would have been the case under the old withholding system. The Congressional Budget Office said in a budget review last year that it now expects tax withholding to be lower during fiscal year 2018; that effect will be offset by higher tax payments (or smaller refunds) when taxpayers file their tax returns next spring.The uncertainty extends to Wall Street.Economists at Morgan Stanley expect that refunds will send savings and spending sharply higher early this year.For your average taxpayer its going to be a record high tax refund season. Much higher than they expected, said Ellen Zentner, chief United States economist at Morgan Stanley.The banks economists expect roughly $62 billion in additional tax refunds attributable to changes from the tax overhaul. That would be a 26 percent increase over last year, they said, and they estimate that a burst of refund-related spending should help consumer expenditures grow at a peppy 3 percent annual rate in the first quarter, before slowing sharply in subsequent quarters.At JPMorgan Chase, economists have estimated that there could be a $20 billion increase in refunds this year related to the tax law. But the banks economists have also noted the considerable uncertainty surrounding the extent of the household benefits from the law. In a recent report, they noted the possibility that all of the tax cuts benefits for households may have already made their way to taxpayers pockets, in the form of lower withholding last year. Such a situation would result in smaller refunds than many might expect.Ive seen estimates that are all over the map, said Michael Feroli, JPMorgans chief United States economist.The size of a refund has nothing to do with benefits taxpayers receive from a tax cut  its simply the difference between the amount Americans withheld from their paychecks to cover their expected tax bill and the amount they actually owe.Americans generally prefer to have too much withheld, even though that amounts to lending the government money without interest until tax filing season arrives and refunds are sent out. Typically, three-quarters of tax filers receive refunds  including last year, when more than 102 million tax filers got money back.Their refunds totaled nearly $285 billion, with the average refund around $2,800. Americans often spend that cash on relatively big-ticket items such as cars, vacations, household appliances and furniture.A lower refund total would mean that, in the switch to the new tax code, companies and taxpayers made better guesses on how much they actually owe the government. But some Republicans in Washington are privately worried taxpayers might not see it that way and that smaller refunds will cause many Americans to think they were penalized, not helped, by the new tax law.Independent analyses, including by the Tax Policy Center in Washington, project that the vast majority of Americans received a tax cut from the new law in its first year, and only 5 percent saw a tax increase, including some higher-earning Americans in high-tax states who will no longer get as big a state and local tax break. But opinion polls show the law has struggled to attract support from a majority of voters.Some of the taxpayers hit hardest by the laws changes could also be in for an unwelcome surprise this filing season. Higher-income taxpayers in high-tax states like California, New York and New Jersey could be particularly at risk for an unexpected tax liability, Morgan Stanley analysts estimate. That is because those taxpayers are more likely to have claimed large deductions for state and local taxes paid on their federal returns. Mr. Trumps tax law capped that deduction, known as S.A.L.T., at $10,000 per household per year.Across the country, unexpectedly large refunds would be a welcome injection of cash into an economy facing a potential slowdown. Business spending tapered in late 2018, and that slowdown most likely worsened as financial markets convulsed in December, weighing on corporate and consumer confidence. The government shutdown is also expected to sap economic growth in the first quarter, since workers and contractors were not paid and vast amounts of government work went undone.Not paying workers drained significant consumer spending power from the economy. Some workers will catch up on their spending once they receive back pay; others, including contractors and business owners that cater to government employees, will have suffered a permanent loss. Federal workers may not be in a rush to spend any money, given the White House and Congress have only given themselves a three-week reprieve to try to resolve the differences that led to the longest shutdown in history.Economists are divided on how much the economy has permanently lost from the shutdown, but many analysts agree that first-quarter growth will be several tenths of a percentage point lower than they had anticipated.An increase in refunds would be sort of a shot in the arm at the right time, if it came in Q1, early Q2, Mr. Feroli said. It would be nice to have consumers sort of have something to smooth over that raw patch.The recent shutdown-related uncertainty about possible delays in paying out refunds could also counteract some of the traditional economic fuel from refund season, said Ms. Zentner of Morgan Stanley.The shutdown, on the heels of an awful December for the stock market, has already contributed to a recent decline in consumer confidence. Such declines are typically associated with a softening in spending behavior and an increase in savings as consumers brace for a more uncertain future.When the government is not functioning its quite scary for households, Ms. Zentner said. Youre just going to pile up on top of another big pile of uncertainty, if their tax refunds are delayed.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byGood Tuesday. Want this by email? Sign up here.President Trump plans to nominate David Malpass, the under secretary of the Treasury for international affairs, to head the World Bank, according to administration officials.Hes likely to land the gig. The nomination must be ratified by the banks board, writes Peter Baker of the NYT, but by tradition, the United States, the largest shareholder, has long named its president. Mr. Trump is expected to announce his pick tomorrow.And he could shake things up. Like Mr. Trump, he has questioned the scope and mission of international institutions such as the World Bank, saying they have grown more intrusive and need to be refocused, Mr. Baker writes. The larger trend toward multilateralism, he has said, has gone substantially too far.That makes him a contentious choice. The prospect of such a steadfast critic of multilateral lenders leading the World Bank has already sparked concern and dismay within the institution and among international and former U.S. officials who deal with global finance and development, write James Politi and Sam Fleming of the FT.There were less controversial options. Indra K. Nooyi, the former C.E.O. of PepsiCo; Ray Washburne, the president of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation; and Heidi Cruz, a Goldman Sachs executive and the wife of Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, were all reportedly considered.After the government shutdown postponed his annual address to Congress, President Trump will finally deliver the speech tonight. (His theme? Choosing Greatness.) Heres whats coming up:A trade plea. He will call on Congress to back the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Free Trade Agreement, meant to replace Nafta. A draft of the speech described Americans as suffering decades of flawed trade deals.Plus one for infrastructure. Hes also expected to urge lawmakers to find budget space for repairing and upgrading roads, bridges and more. But the WSJ reports that Mr. Trump feels iffy about some elements of his previous proposals, including private-public partnerships.Border wall demands. Mr. Trump still plans to request money to pay for a wall between the U.S. and Mexico, though he lost support during the shutdown. He is still considering declaring a national emergency to get it, despite an expected challenge from Democrats and growing opposition among Republican senators.And the rebuttal. Democrats response will come from Stacey Abrams, a rising star who narrowly lost last years race for Georgias governorship. (Many in the party want her to run for Senate next year; she may do so.)For decades, Bill Gross was a titan of finance. He turned the investment firm Pimco into a $2 trillion giant. But by the time he announced his retirement yesterday from Janus Henderson Investments  the firm he joined in 2014 after a dispute with Pimco  he was at a low point.The numbers prove it. Pimco Total Return, the fund he once ruled, returned 2.54 percent, annualized, in the three years through Friday, trouncing the paltry 0.95 percent returned by his new fund, Janus Henderson Global Unconstrained, Jeff Sommer of the NYT writes. His Janus fund shrank from a peak of $2.2 billion to under $1 billion last year. Mr. Gross was an icon of the bond world. He drew investors by combining mathematical models and broad economic analyses. He advised the Treasury Department during the 2008 financial crisis and gained a reputation as a quirky oracle of the financial world.But he made one fatal error. Robin Wigglesworth of the FT asks whether Mr. Gross was more lucky than brilliant and how much of his success was owed to former colleagues. He picks brilliance, but adds, Even investing stars need a supporting cast to excel, and forgetting this can be hazardous.Need evidence that U.S. law enforcement is taking potential thefts of American technology seriously? Look no further than a report by Bloomberg Businessweek about an F.B.I. sting operation targeting Huawei, the Chinese telecom giant.How it went down: An American start-up, Akahn, claims to have developed glass that can make smartphone screens nearly indestructible, and has shopped it around smartphone makers. But Huawei took suspicious liberties when testing a sample. The F.B.I. got involved, ultimately organizing a sting on Huawei executives in Las Vegas last month.Businessweek got a ringside seat. Erik Schatzker, the articles author, writes that he watched the sting operation from 100 feet away, in front of a gelato stand.What now? Unclear. Its possible that the government will conclude there arent grounds for an indictment, Mr. Schatzker writes. If thats so, it raises a question about the broader U.S. crackdown on Huawei: Is it based on hard evidence of wrongdoing or driven by a desperation to catch the Chinese company doing something  anything  bad? But an indictment would show just how far and wide Huawei is willing to go to steal American trade secrets.More Huawei news: Some telecom companies are standing by the company despite all the scrutiny. And Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany set out conditions that Huawei must meet to build 5G networks in her country.Automation is changing work, flushing people without a college degree out of productive industries like manufacturing and high-tech services and into low-wage dead-end jobs, Eduardo Porter of the NYT writes: There is a small island of highly educated professionals making good wages at corporations like Intel or Boeing, which reap hundreds of thousands of dollars in profit per employee. But the employment footprint of highly productive industries, like finance, manufacturing, information services and wholesale trade, has shrunk over the last 30 years. That island sits in the middle of a sea of less educated workers who are stuck at businesses like hotels, restaurants and nursing homes that generate much smaller profits per employee and stay viable primarily by keeping wages low. Recent research has concluded that robots are reducing the demand for workers and weighing down wages, which have been rising more slowly than the productivity of workers.Democrats in New York States Senate are fighting Gov. Andrew Cuomos $3 billion plan to bring Amazon offices to Queens  and may have the power to halt it altogether.What happened: The Senate named Senator Michael Gianaris, who has called the incentives promised to Amazon offensive, to the little-known Public Authorities Control Board.Why that matters: The board, as Mr. Cuomo has noted, will vote on Amazons so-called HQ2 plan, and could veto it. (It helped block Michael Bloombergs plan to build a stadium in Manhattans West Side 14 years ago.)Whats next: The governor could reject Mr. Gianariss nomination, but it would lead to a political fight. Mr. Cuomos office said that the nomination put the self-interest of a flip-flopping opponent of Amazon above the states economic growth. Mr. Gianaris said he wouldnt use the position to seek concessions from Amazon: Im not looking to negotiate a better deal.More Jeff Bezos news: Washington Post employees arent happy that their companys owner paid over $10 million for a Super Bowl ad.The Federal Reserves chairman spent the evening of his 66th birthday dining at the White House with President Trump and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin.On the agenda: Recent economic developments and the outlook for growth, employment and inflation, according to a Federal Reserve statement. He did not discuss his expectations for monetary policy, except to stress that the path of policy will depend entirely on incoming economic information and what that means for the outlook.And on the menu? Steak, an anonymous source told the WSJ.Michael OLeary will become the C.E.O. of Ryanairs parent company, but will relinquish that role at the airline.Deals The workplace messaging company Slack filed confidentially to go public. Its skipping the traditional I.P.O. process in the same way Spotify did, by pursuing a direct listing. (NYT) Vivendi is reportedly considering selling a stake in Universal Music Group, valuing the business at $25 billion. (Bloomberg) Papa Johns received a $200 million investment from Starboard Value, the activist hedge fund, and named the investment firms chief, Jeffrey Smith, as its chairman. (WSJ) An investor group led by Hellman & Friedman agreed to buy Ultimate Software Group, an H.R. specialist, for about $11 billion. (WSJ) Gannett rejected a $1.3 billion hostile takeover bid by the hedge-fund backed publisher MNG Enterprises. (NYT) The E.U.s expected rejection of a merger of Siemenss and Alstoms rail businesses raises questions about its antitrust policies. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy Federal prosecutors ordered the Trump inaugural committee to hand over documents about its donors and finances. (NYT) President Trump plans to name a former oil lobbyist, David Bernhardt, as interior secretary. (NYT) Soak the rich tax proposals by Democratic lawmakers have drawn condemnation from colleagues in Washington  but polls show voters support them. (Politico) Howard Schultz will take three to four months to decide whether to run for president as an independent, and promised not to inadvertently help re-elect Mr. Trump. (Politico) A case that Congress and Mr. Trump should increase spending to prevent an economic slowdown. (NYT Op-Ed)Trade Some trade hard-liners fear that President Trump is being played by China during current negotiations. If the talks fail, the U.N. warns that subsequent tariff increases could be significantly negative for global trade. (Bloomberg, BBC) How U.S. criminal laws became weapons in the China trade war. (DealBook) And how Chinas online censorship helps stifle trade. (NYT Op-Ed)Tech Googles parent, Alphabet, reported that its profit margins shrank in the fourth quarter because of huge investments. Investors wiped 3 percent off its share price in after-hours trading. (FT) As Facebook turned 15 years old yesterday, Mark Zuckerberg complained that people overly emphasize the negative aspects of its impact. (Facebook) Theres interest in Silicon Valley in a wealth tax. But a major obstacle is how to value private-company assets. (Information) Instagrams chief, Adam Mosseri, said that the social network hadnt done enough to help prevent suicide and self-harm. (Telegraph) Quadriga CX, a digital money exchange, has about $145 million of its customers cryptocurrency locked with passwords its former C.E.O. took with him to the grave. (Bloomberg)Brexit Prime Minister Theresa May will head to Northern Ireland today to rally support for her Brexit deal with the E.U., and promises that she will find a way to keep the Irish border open. (Bloomberg) The issue has left the Bank of England uncertain whether to raise interest rates. (FT) Britain will ease import regulations to make a no-deal Brexit less problematic for its businesses. (WSJ) Reportedly, it could even cut import tariffs to zero in that scenario, which some British companies find far from reassuring. (HuffPo) The Bank of England and European regulators agreed to cooperate on oversight of clearinghouses to keep trades flowing smoothly if no deal is reached. (Bloomberg)Best of the rest Australian banks overcharged clients, including clients who had died. (NYT) A Federal Reserve paper says that negative rates would have accelerated Americas economic recovery. (WSJ) Russias economic growth looks sensational. It may be too good to be true. (Bloomberg Opinion) Betting on low-volatility stocks is usually safe. Not now. (Bloomberg) An annual income of $81,000 puts you in Indias 1 percent; in the U.A.E., its $894,000. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! Well see you tomorrow.Wed love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
"AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael D. ShearWASHINGTON  President Trump declared on Monday morning that he expects a very tremendous summit later this week with Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, suggesting again that his eventual goal is to convince Mr. Kim to abandon his nuclear weapons.Mr. Trumps comments, at a breakfast meeting with the nations governors, followed a morning tweet in which he predicted that with complete Denuclearization, North Korea will rapidly become an Economic Powerhouse. Mr. Trump departed without further comment on Air Force One hours later for the flight to Hanoi, Vietnam, the site of the summit meeting on Wednesday and Thursday.Meeting for breakfast with our Nations Governors - then off to Vietnam for a very important Summit with Kim Jong Un. With complete Denuclearization, North Korea will rapidly become an Economic Powerhouse. Without it, just more of the same. Chairman Kim will make a wise decision!The presidents optimistic assessment came amid indications that the administration may be preparing to deliver something that Mr. Kim desperately wants: a joint political statement declaring an end to the Korean War.President Moon Jae-in of South Korea has also called for an end-of-war declaration, which could put pressure on the United States to withdraw the nearly 28,500 troops stationed in South Korea  a move that the administration says it opposes. But it is uncertain how much progress toward denuclearization Mr. Trump is prepared to demand from Mr. Kim in exchange for a declaration of peace that would stop short of replacing the 1953 armistice.Ned Price, a former spokesman for the National Security Council for President Barack Obama, on Monday warned of what he called a Pollyannaish approach by Mr. Trump that could lead the United States to give Mr. Kim too much in exchange for little real progress in abandoning his nuclear weapons.The chance for a diplomatic resolution to North Koreas nuclear ambitions is too critical an opportunity to allow Trump to squander, Mr. Price wrote in an email message Monday morning. We must be comfortable holding the Trump administrations feet to the fire.Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said it was Mr. Trumps strong tactics that pushed Mr. Kim into negotiations in the first place. But in his own series of tweets on Monday morning, Mr. Graham described the upcoming talks in Hanoi as our last, best chance to end the nuclear conflict with North Korea on peaceful terms.At a White House reception on Sunday evening, Mr. Trump told the governors that he had told Mr. Kim that North Korea could be one of the great financial and economic countries anywhere in the world, but only if the North gives up its nuclear weapons. Mr. Trump said it was unclear whether the North Korean leader would agree.We have a special feeling, and I think its going to lead to something very good, and maybe not, Mr. Trump said Sunday. I think ultimately it will, but maybe not.Even as the president prepared to travel abroad, a series of Monday morning tweets suggested that he remains focused on other topics closer to home. Before meeting with the governors, Mr. Trump tweeted about oil prices, movie director Spike Lee, the nations economy and border security.His tweet about Mr. Lee was a response to the directors call, during Sundays Academy Awards broadcast, for mobilization against the president in the 2020 election.At the governors breakfast, Mr. Trump repeated his belief in the need for a wall across the southwest border to stop illegal immigrants and drugs from coming into the United States. And he complained about migrants flowing into the country from Central American countries.Mr. Trump said he has told leaders in Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador to stop caravans of people from traveling through Mexico toward the border with the United States.Theyre not sending their best, he said, adding that the Central American countries are sending rough hombres. Immigration advocates have said that most of the people in caravans are families fleeing gang violence and severe poverty.Mr. Trumps foreign trip will keep him out of the United States for a week, but he is likely to be dogged by domestic issues while overseas.On Tuesday, Congress is expected to vote on a resolution blocking Mr. Trump from declaring a national emergency so that he can fund construction of his border wall. If the resolution passes, that vote could lead to Mr. Trumps first-ever veto.The next day, on Wednesday, Michael D. Cohen, the presidents one-time personal lawyer and fixer, is scheduled to begin public testimony in front of a congressional committee. Among the topics he is expected to discuss is his effort to help Mr. Trump block news stories that alleged his affairs with two women.Advertisement"
"corner officeIn her conservative Brahmin family in India, education was everything. That prepared her to thrive in corporate America and rise to become chief executive of PepsiCo. Indra Nooyi, a former chief executive of PepsiCo.CreditCreditErik Tanner for The New York TimesSupported byBy David GellesWhen Indra Nooyi stepped down as chief executive of PepsiCo last year, she was replaced by a man  and the ranks of female C.E.O.s further dwindled. Today, fewer than 5 percent of companies in the Standard & Poors 500 are led by women. Ms. Nooyis absence will be particularly notable. During her 12 years running Pepsi, she increased the companys top-line revenues while expanding its offerings to include healthier foods. At the same time, she fended off activist investors calling for higher short-term profits. Her tenure was not without controversy, though. Health advocates pushed the company to reduce the amount of salt, sugar and fat in its products. Pepsi was accused of deceptive marketing practices. And Ms. Nooyi was among the business leaders who stepped down from presidential advisory councils after President Trumps response to the violence in Charlottesville, Va., in 2017. Though the White House reportedly considered Ms. Nooyi to be World Bank president, she did not wind up with the job. Instead, she will be teaching at West Point, and recently joined the board of Amazon. This interview, which was condensed and edited for clarity, was conducted in New York. You joined the board of Amazon just after its about-face on building a new headquarters in New York. What happened? New York was making an investment in Amazon in the short term to get many years of benefits. Its very hard to explain the many years of benefits. People just worry about what short-term investment youre giving. It was a big loss for New York.Philosophically, where do you stand on this?Its a competitive environment. Every state is competing for those jobs. So it becomes a race between the states, each one putting up the right incentives to get the companies. Im not sure the companies themselves are demanding it. I think they just said, We want another headquarters, and theres a feeding frenzy from all the states.Should companies really participate in this race to the bottom and pit states against one another? If companies dont get the incentives, the shareholders are going to say, Why didnt you get the incentives? Ive heard that before. Did you get the incentives from the state? Did you get the maximum tax reductions from the state? The shareholder community expects it from you.What was your childhood like? I grew up in Madras, which is now Chennai. We never lacked for anything, but we didnt have much. It was a good, conservative Brahmin family, deeply steeped in learning and education. That was the only focus. The expectation was you would get, at a minimum, a masters degree. If you got a Ph.D., youre better off. We were the ultimate nerds. The only difference was, in my case, I decided to be a nerd in some ways and branch out in other ways. I played cricket. I climbed trees. I played the guitar. I did all those wild and wacky things.What was it like for you when you arrived in the U.S. to attend the Yale School of Management?I got dropped off in New Haven and had nobody to help me. They didnt have support systems for international students. They gave you a map and said: Go register for classes here. Go do this there. I was a vegetarian, so I didnt know what to eat. I needed curds for every meal, but I didnt know where to get them. Then somebody said: Its the same as yogurt. Go get yogurt. The first few weeks were very tough. But little by little, the international students banded together, because we were all miserable without any support systems. Pretty soon, we were having a wonderful time. What were the big takeaways from your time at Yale? The school had just started, and the basic belief, which is more relevant now than ever, was that companies are members of society, and what you do has to be viewed as through a stakeholder lens, not just a shareholder lens. They steeped all of us in that thinking.There was a moment early in your career when you had the chance to go to a few different companies, including G.E. and Monsanto. Why did you choose Pepsi? Wayne Calloway, who was then C.E.O. of Pepsi, was a man of few of words. He called me at the last minute, just before I was going to join G.E., and made an amazing pitch. He was on the board of G.E., and he said: I hear youre going to join G.E. Its a great company, and Jack Welch is a great C.E.O. But my need at Pepsi is greater than Jacks. We dont have somebody like you here, and youll make a bigger difference at PepsiCo. They didnt have somebody of my ethnicity or international outlook who was female in senior management at PepsiCo. When did you start thinking about the need for Pepsi to be more than a soda and snacks company? The first recognition came, I think, in 2000, when I was head of strategy. The marketplace was changing. It was changing slowly, but we had to make some moves before it changed too fast. We could see articles on health and wellness were picking up speed. We bought Quaker Oats in 2000 because we had no food brand that could play in the morning. It was also clear that beverage habits were changing. Our own employees consumption was changing. It went from regular Pepsi to Diet Pepsi and Pepsi Max. Everywhere you looked, you could see that consumption of low-calorie, zero-calorie products was increasing.How do you get a big multinational company to buy into such a dramatic change in strategy? If the C.E.O. doesnt feel the change, as opposed to just talking about the change, people will see right through it. So the first thing I had to do was make sure that whenever I talked to employees about it, I shared experiences, observations, data. I talked about water shortages in parts of the world. I would show them examples of plastic waste, the lack of recycling programs and what that could do to the environment. And I would talk about peoples consumption of fat, sugar and salt.We had town halls and invited the spouses of employees to come. At one in Egypt, a lady stood up and said, My husbands going to be mad Im saying this, but I have a kid whos 2, and I read every label, and Im not willing to give my child all PepsiCo products.Plenty of people questioned the strategy. What made you stick with it? Our board bought into the strategy. If your board is not on your side, it doesnt work. But they said, What youre doing with the portfolio, what youre doing with the whole environment and sustainability issue, what youre going to do with the focus on diversity  this is the right way to move the company forward.And I told them: This means that Im not going to focus on beating every index. Im going to focus on duration of returns, rather than level of returns for a short time. And the board said, Yes, thats the right way to go at it.But if youre really committed to health, why keep selling soda and chips? Mountain Dew is a fantastic brand. Its a great franchise. Im not here to tell you what to eat or drink. My job is to give you a choice of products, between fun for you, better for you and good for you. Ill give you nutritious products. Ill give you low-calorie products. Ill give you indulgent products.I have to make sure that the good-for-you products arent more expensive than the fun-for-you products, and that the good-for-you products dont taste awful while the fun-for-you products taste great. But if I make all the products ubiquitously available, priced reasonably the same and they all taste great, ultimately its a consumer choice. And if I put the right amount of advertising dollars between the whole portfolio, Im letting the consumer decide.What did you learn from your time fighting with activists such as Nelson Peltz?I always told Nelson: You may be an external activist, but Im an internal activist. Ive got a lot of stock. So if you have an idea to improve the company, Ill implement it. But if you have a radical, short-term idea that destroys the company in the long term, uh-uh, aint going to work. Im not going to do it, and my board is not going to accept it.What was it like working with President Trump on the Strategic and Policy Forum? Each of the meetings was constructive. He gave us his undivided attention. He listened to everything we had to say. And he could not have been nicer. He went out of his way to drink Diet Pepsi when I was there. Was it a mistake to disband the forum after his response to the violence in Charlottesville?Yes and no. We all regretted disbanding the forum. But the fact of the matter is, there were other issues that took the focus away from the good work we were doing. And when youre facing that sort of criticism, its very hard to remain engaged.What is it going to take to get more women in the C-suite? The issue is not women in the C-suite, its a leaky pipeline. The pipeline is leaking at the early stages. Because we get enough women coming into the work force in various stages. But by the time they get to Level 2 and Level 3, they just drop out of the work force for several reasons. One that can be addressed quickly is this tremendous unconscious bias. On top of that, the time that they get to Level 2 in a company is when they will have families, and many companies are not mandated to give parental leave. People just drop out of the work force, and then we wonder why they dont go up to the top. We can ill afford to be a country where women drop out of the work force.David Gelles is the Corner Office columnist and a business reporter. Follow him on LinkedIn and Twitter.  @dgelles Advertisement"
"A crisis is emerging at migrant shelters as the Trump administration focuses, as one official put it, on how can we deter, rather than how can we handle.A migrant child from Honduras at Annunciation House in El Paso. The shelter takes in roughly 200 migrants a day.CreditCreditSara Naomi Lewkowicz for The New York TimesSupported byBy Manny Fernandez, Caitlin Dickerson and Paulina VillegasEL PASO  At a migrant shelter near the Mexican border, three girls from Guatemala  sisters aged 10, 9 and 6  coughed and sniffled. One of them clung to both a teddy bear and a large bottle of Pedialyte, to soothe her dehydration and flu.The girls mother, Nelcy, 28, said her daughters got sick not during their long journey to the border in the back of a pickup truck, but during the 12 days they spent at two crowded government detention facilities before arriving at the privately run shelter in Texas. It was very cold, especially for the children, said Nelcy, who would only be identified by her first name. My children got sick. They gave us aluminum blankets, but it wasnt enough.[President Trump warned that he was considering declaring a national emergency to build the border wall.]The shelter network here run by the nonprofit Annunciation House is now receiving roughly 200 new migrants a day, the same number it saw in an entire week only a year ago. The number of migrants traveling as families crossing the border from Mexico exceeded 25,000 in November, the highest numbers ever recorded.Heres how much the proposed border deal would add to existing barriers.Like Nelcy and her daughters, the new arrivals from Central America are coming in much sicker, after being held far longer than ever before in bare-bones government detention facilities never intended for children. Asylum seekers bottled up in Mexico are jumping fences and throwing rocks at officers, who are firing tear gas to push them away. Hundreds of migrants have been released on city streets in recent weeks, uncertain of where to go. Two sick migrant children have died while in custody.A crisis of the kind President Trump has long warned of is beginning to take shape along the countrys 1,900-mile border with Mexico. A border security network built over a period of decades to handle large numbers of single men has in the past several years been inundated with women and children, and as the number of families has peaked in recent months, the system has increasingly been unable to accommodate all of them.Much of the growing chaos, say many of those who work along the border and in some of the governments own security agencies, is a result of a failed gamble on the part of the Trump administration that a succession of ever-harsher border policies would deter the flood of migrants coming from Central America.It has not, and the failure to spend money on expanding border processing facilities, better transportation and broader networks of cooperation with private charities, they say, has led to the current problems with overcrowding, health threats and uncontrolled releases of migrants in cities along the border.Its the complete, 100 percent focus on harsher options that will deter the influx, with a disregard for managing whats happening, said a Department of Homeland Security official who spoke on the condition of anonymity for fear of being fired. We have a lot more families, a lot more unaccompanied children, and the focus has just been on how can we deter, rather than how can we handle.Mr. Trump has made it a priority to end what he calls the practice of catch and release, but the policy of holding large numbers of migrants in detention has led to capacity problems. The Obama administration had a policy of releasing migrants who were considered safe and likely to appear in court in order to make room for others who were a higher priority for detention, but the Trump administration has largely eliminated that practice.The number of detainees at Immigration and Customs Enforcement facilities has reached its highest point ever, according to figures provided by the agency, with an average daily population of 45,200 single adults and family units.The result is the recent need to release large numbers of migrants, many simply dropped off at bus stations. About 600 migrants were dropped off with no advance planning in El Paso during the last full week in December. Similar releases have happened in recent days and weeks in Arizona and California.The homeland security official said the administration could have done more to improve the situation and avoid the recent mass drop-offs, such as working more closely with nonprofit groups. They could have put more resources down there, either monetary or physical, the official said. There are things you could do to manage it so that its not just, Were overwhelmed. Were releasing them.The administration blames Congress and the courts for creating a system that encourages families who do not qualify for asylum to apply for the status anyway, often living in the country for months or years as their applications move through the courts. Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, has been critical of court rulings that make it difficult to hold migrants with children in detention for long periods  creating what officials say is a loophole that is encouraging migrants to bring their children on long, treacherous journeys from Central America.Secretary Nielsen has been saying for over a year to anyone who would listen  especially members of Congress  that our frontline men and women dont have the adequate resources needed for the number of aliens we are apprehending, Katie Waldman, a spokeswoman for the Homeland Security Department, said in a statement. This humanitarian crisis is driven by activist court rulings and poorly written laws that incentivize the smuggling of illegal immigrants under the age of 18.At the direction of the White House, the Department of Homeland Security has churned out a series of aggressive initiatives aimed at discouraging migrants from coming. Most of them have been quickly blocked by the courts.Last year, the government announced it would arrest close to 100 percent of all those who crossed the border illegally and separate them from their children  a measure that was blocked by the courts and rescinded. Later, the administration tried to prevent migrants from applying for asylum anywhere but at legal border crossings, and then limited the number of migrants it would process each day at those border stations. That policy created logjams and escalating tensions at border stations from Texas to California, though part of it, too, was enjoined by the courts.Some of those involved in the policymaking said that there was open acknowledgment within the government that the newest policies under development  a plan that would require asylum seekers to wait in Mexico through the duration of their immigration cases, and one to build tent cities along the border to house more families  were either likely to face an immediate court injunction or were so costly that they could not be justified to taxpayers. But the officials said they were under orders from the White House to push forward.Its like, O.K., why are we working on this if its just another lawsuit in the making? said a second Homeland Security official, who also spoke on the condition of anonymity. Everybody knows that its going to be challenged in the courts and likely struck down. I dont think the people at the top feel like they have a choice. They just do what they are asked to do.The situation has become more tense in recent weeks as ICE authorities, who in the past were careful to coordinate with volunteer shelters when releasing migrants, have instead begun dropping them in large numbers in the streets in Texas, Arizona and California, forcing city officials and charity groups to scramble.Were dealing with the symptoms of the root cause, which is the lack of a rational immigration policy from Washington, and both sides are culpable, said Dee Margo, the mayor of El Paso.City officials have been told that the government may soon increase the number of migrants released in El Paso to 500 daily. That may be a killer, that may be a real challenge for us to be able to deal with, Mr. Margo said.The government itself is dealing with some of the most acute problems  housing large numbers of families in border processing centers built to handle single men.In Yuma, Ariz., 87 percent of migrants apprehended in the current fiscal year were traveling as a family, and 50 percent of them were children. Expenditures have shot up 600 percent since last year, with the money being spent on diapers, feminine care products, snacks and juice, said a Border Patrol official in the state who was not authorized to speak on the record.While the Yuma office was approved for some overtime funding and additional agents, requests for a modular facility to house children and families have been denied, the official said. The new building would add more showers to the current number, which is three, as well as add beds and play rooms for children.The administrations aggressive focus on deterrence has built up the frustration of the migrants themselves. After trying to jump the fence at Tijuana and fleeing a wave of tear gas on New Years Eve, Fernando Duarte, a 22-year-old Honduran, was among those hurling rocks at Border Patrol officers. He said he was determined to try again.They are very wrong if they think tear gas will keep me from trying, Mr. Duarte said. I am trying to get a better future and a little gas wont stop me.Nowhere has the growing desperation of migrants been more apparent than in Tijuana. The high volume of migrants from Central America arriving there has collided with the Trump administrations decision to ration the number of asylum requests processed each day. Private shelters in Tijuana managed by local Christian and Catholic groups are near capacity, pushing new migrants into tent cities and improvised shelters that lack proper sanitation.The ones that are waiting for the door to open, theyre waiting three or four months, said Victor Clark Alfaro, the director of the Binational Center for Human Rights in Tijuana. Others are getting desperate and prefer to try to cross illegally.In November, municipal leaders in Tijuana opened an improvised shelter at the Benito Juarez Sports Complex that turned, as Mr. Clark Alfaro put it, into a Central American ghetto. The conditions there grew increasingly dismal as winter brought cold weather and rain, and about 6,000 people were crowded into the stadium at one point, far beyond its capacity of roughly 2,000. The city shut down the shelter. As a replacement, the government opened a new shelter in El Barretal on the east side of Tijuana.The Barretal shelter is a large compound where hundreds of sleeping tents are lined up on the clean concrete floor. Freshly laundered clothes hang from balconies and staircases.Inside, Isabel Lzaro Daz, 30, finished the meal she had waited in a long line for: grilled chicken, rice and beans.On the way here, I regretted it a thousand times, she said of her decision to leave her native Guatemala with her 5-year-old son, adding of Mr. Trump, What he is doing is making us feel frustration and despair and putting us in a closed box with four closed walls, no entry or exit.Manny Fernandez reported from El Paso, Caitlin Dickerson from New York, and Paulina Villegas from Tijuana, Mexico. Jose A. Del Real contributed reporting from San Diego, Calif., and Mitchell Ferman from McAllen, Tex.Advertisement"
